MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we play Dungeons & Dragons! Sorry.
I'm excited.
MATT: Laura will be joining us shortly. She's
finishing baby stuff in the other room. But in the
meantime, we're here to get through our
announcements for the evening. First and foremost,
we have our fantastic friends and glorious sponsor
through campaign two thus far, D&D Beyond.
ALL: D&D Beyond!
SAM: Yesterday, guys, was D&D Beyond's first one--
first one-year anniversary. Take two. Hey guys,
yesterday was D&D Beyond's one-year anniversary.
Wish them a happy birthday on their Facebook and
Twitter pages.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Happy birthday.
SAM: Or just right there. Also, as a reminder, D&D
Beyond streams their weekly show called & Beyond
every Wednesday on twitch.tv/dndbeyond. It's not--
take two. I was going to say it's not great
conversations, but no. Pick up. It's got great
conversations with special guests like Matt Mercer
and Mike Mearls, and other guests with M.M. names.
That's the whole announcement, but I recently went
to Virginia, so I got inspired to write a country
song for D&D Beyond.
TRAVIS: Is that what that hat is?
MARISHA: That hat has puka shells on it.
SAM: I was going to learn this on the guitar, but
then I realized I don't really play guitar. All
right, here's my country song for D&D Beyond.
(singing) My baby left me on the fourth of July, I
cri-- Take two.
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay, I'm ready.
SAM: Settle. (singing) My baby left me on the
fourth of July. I cried red, white, and blue. Got
in my Chevy, popped open a Coors, and moseyed on
over to you. Opened the trailer, played some
Johnny Cash, kicked off my cowboy boots, and sat.
Got my character sheet and my daddy's dice,
because Exandria's where it's at. D&D Beyond, be
my girl tonight. Roll me close, crit me tight. I
got a pickup, a 12-gauge, an American flag, but
it's you that makes me feel all right. D&D
Beyond--
MARISHA: (singing) D&D Beyond.
SAM: (singing) Be my girl tonight. There's another
verse! I've trucked across the heartland, from
Dallas to Memphis and back. But Emon's the place I
miss the most, where I want to hang my hat. So,
darling, call the Piggly Wiggly, and tell them
you're gonna be late. Turn off your phone because
your cowboy's home. Get ready for an all-night
date. D&D Beyond, be my girl tonight. Roll me
close, crit me tight. I got some illegal
fireworks, a smokehouse, a new tractor, a hunting
dog, my mama's Bible, some Frito pie, NASCAR
tickets, a deer license, some new tires, a handle
of Southern Comfort, but it's you that makes me
feel all right. D&D Beyond, be my girl tonight.
MATT: Aw, thank you, Sam.
SAM: Those are all official Southern things.
TRAVIS: I'm not sure if we'll animate that one,
but--
SAM: Give it time!
MATT: If we've taken anything from that, we now
have the mental image of a country Sam enjoying an
all-night date with his D&D Beyond.
LAURA: You and your computer, all night.
MATT: Thank you, D&D Beyond, for your sponsorship
and allowing such magical moments like this to
happen.
LIAM: "What are you doing in there, Sam?" "I'm
just looking at my spells!"
MATT: We also have, for those who haven't seen it
yet or haven't had the opportunity, Marisha's
Honey Heist 2: Electric Beargaloo VOD is available
on YouTube at youtube.com/criticalrole, so you can
go check it out there for free any time you want!
It's there, it's ready to go.
TRAVIS: You were a bunch of crackheads.
Crackheads.
MATT: It was nuts. It was so much fun.
MARISHA: We were pretty loopy.
MATT: On that same regard, for the time being, our
limited-run Electric Beargaloo tee is available
right now in the store, for a limited time.
Fantastic, beary awesome portrait art by Joana
Carvalho, who did a great job with it. You can
check it out at shop.critrole.com.
LAURA: Who was touching my dice? Why were they out
already when I got here? Samuel, what did you do?
SAM: I may have helped set up for you, being a
caring parent. Don't worry, though, I only touched
the ones that you wouldn't have used anyway.
LAURA: Great.
MATT: Speaking of which, Laura, how's that merch
coming?
LAURA: Hey, we got those Electric Beargaloo
shirts! You guys, did you know we have a bunch of
new items in our shop?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: What?
LAURA: There's a retro tee. There's a Mighty Nein
Tee. That one has been altered by Marisha Ray, but
you can alter your own at home.
MARISHA: Sleeves are bullshit!
LAURA: That's right. We've got-- we don't have
that one in store right now. But we have our other
shirts. The Nott Detective Agency, case closed.
SAM: You've got one job.
LAURA: We have hats that are sold out that'll be
back some time. Pins.
MARISHA: Everyone loved the dad hats.
LAURA: The dad hats are awesome!
SAM: Why are they dad hats?
LAURA: Well, they're called dad hat.
SAM: Oh, okay.
LAURA: But I wore my dad hat and it looks great on
a girl, too.
MARISHA: I was wearing it today when I was
working.
LAURA: It's metallic thread. That'll be back. I
like how we're advertising our hat that's not in
stock right now, but there's other things. Go
check it out at our shop: shop.critrole.com. I
know that address by heart!
MATT: Thank you, Laura. Welcome back to the
table.
TRAVIS: Polished, professional.
MARISHA: It's like riding a bike.
LAURA: Someday I'll get to Sam Riegel levels.
SAM: (singing) D&D Beyond--
MATT: On that note, guys, we'll have our Wyrmwood
giveaway at the break. I'll have all that
information for you and a reminder at the time.
But for right now, I think it's time to jump into
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Welcome back. Well done, Laura. Welcome
back. Last we left off, our band of adventurers,
The Mighty Nein, having trekked away from Zadash
northward on two different jobs for The Gentleman,
had accomplished both of these contracted jobs for
him. Losing a friend, gaining a friend, made their
way back south. Oh my god! Motherfucker!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Wow, that's been a while.
LAURA: Whoa. Marisha, look! It's your husband.
TRAVIS: Everything you do, have done, or will do.
MARISHA: Oh, so good.
TRAVIS: Oh god. Doogie Howser, eat your fucking
heart out.
MATT: You know that part in the game where you
don't understand why you got so many points into
renegade as opposed to paragon?
(laughter)
LIAM: Now available in the merch store!
MATT: I'm not going to be able to run the game
tonight. I can't focus. Take two.
TRAVIS: Neither can the fans, steamy Dr. Mercer.
MATT: Oh, I will never live that down. It's great
when you're a new actor in LA and everyone says,
"Yeah, you got to get some head shots, and I know
all about it. You got to get those costume and
"character shots in."
TRAVIS: Is that what it was? Yes! Oh, I love it!
LIAM: When you show up, right off the truck, you
don't know what you're doing.
MATT: Yeah, you need some archetypes. Come with a
doctor outfit, come with a regular business suit.
MARISHA: To be fair, I got a few gigs that way, by
doing a few character shots.
MATT: I've done a lot of doctors. No, all that
photo has done is this. That is literally the most
it's ever done.
LIAM: You're like 17 and a half here, right?
MATT: That would have been about ten years ago.
SAM: So early 30s?
MATT: Yes. We'll go with that one. Anyway, back to
the story at hand! Upon completing your journey,
checking in with The Gentleman, you were paid the
ripe sum that you had discussed. After taking your
newfound friend from Shadycreek Run, Ophelia, back
to The Evening Nip, you exited with your new gold
and platinum in hand. After a celebratory drink to
the memory of Molly, you grabbed Caduceus and led
him into the city of Zadash-- the largest city
you've ever seen by leaps and bounds-- to see what
kind of ways you can corrupt this new, fresh mind,
free out of the Savalierwood.
LAURA: It's so exciting!
MATT: That is where we left off. In this case,
guys, we have roughly two weeks of downtime. I'm
going to go around and ask what you would like to
accomplish, and if moments require rolls, moments
require roleplay, anything like that, we'll jump
into it. I would like to say, who wants to go first?
TRAVIS: Oh god. One two three, not it!
TALIESIN, MARISHA, and LAURA: Not it.
TALIESIN: Liam.
SAM: I didn't say not it. Would you like to go,
Liam?
LIAM: Not it.
TRAVIS: Yeah! Come on, Piggly Wiggly!
SAM: Sure. Not much. Okay, the things I wrote down
were: I would like to use my money.
LAURA: Your money!
SAM: To buy a bunch of baubles and trinkets and
buttons and ribbons and string and beads and one
crescent ornament.
MATT: Okay, I will say you could purchase all of
those things-- and you're buying these yourself?
SAM: In Disguise Self mode.
MATT: Okay, yeah. I'd say you could buy all of
those things with, let's say, a single gold,
because your charisma isn't that high. A single
gold piece for all of that. That's priced up a bit.
SAM and LAURA: That's pretty good.
SAM: I will put all of that stuff into a package
and mail it away with a note that I sent you
earlier, Matt.
MATT: Yep, I have that.
SAM: Okay, step two! I'm going to take my gun.
TRAVIS: Your what?
SAM: Oh, I stole a gun. You weren't there for
that?
MATT: No, that was on the way out of Hupperdook.
They weren't there for that.
SAM: I stole a gun!
TRAVIS: You got a gat?
SAM: I stole a gun from a guard. I've got one
bullet.
TRAVIS: Yeah, like one round, single shot?
SAM: Yeah! Don't fuck with me, man! I will blow
you away, motherfucker!
TRAVIS: Oh shit! Okay!
SAM: Unless I miss, and then it's nothing. No, I
would like to take apart the gun. I'd like to take
apart the gun and figure out how the hammer works,
how the gunpowder ignites. Is it a pack of powder
like a bullet, or is it loose powder with a ball?
MATT: Well, first off, do you have or own
tinkerer's tools?
SAM: No, but do any of you guys?
MARISHA: Have what?
SAM: Tinkerer's tools. I'll go and buy them!
MATT: This next expense will be 50 gold pieces for
the set of tinkerer's tools.
SAM: No problem.
MATT: I would need you to make a tinkering check
to see if you can successfully disassemble the gun.
SAM: Does anyone want to help me?
MATT: Without ruining elements of it.
LAURA: I don't think any of us have enough
experience to help you.
LIAM: Caleb would help.
SAM: Do you have tinkering experience?
LIAM: No, but I'm pretty smart.
MATT: You're not proficient in tinkerer's tools,
so it's basically a straight intelligence check.
Add your intelligence modifier to see if you can
figure out the safest way to do so.
SAM: I rolled a 14 and I have an intelligence of
plus three.
MATT: It takes you a little bit of time, but you
manage to very carefully disassemble the entirety
of the pistol without any issues.
SAM: I'm specifically curious about how the impact
of the hammer creates an explosion.
MATT: Through the words of the man responsible for
inventing these things naught but 20-plus years
beforehand, if you would like to explain?
LAURA: Oh my goodness!
TALIESIN: There is a flash pan where there's a
preload powder, basically a powder capsule
attaches to a flash pan. The hammer contains a
sparking mechanism that hits a plate, causes a
spark to hit the powder in the flash pan, goes
into the gunpowder that's within that's actually
packed inside of the barrel and sends the shot
out.
SAM: Is it a specific kind of metal that makes a
spark?
TALIESIN: It actually is a specific kind. It's a
flint.
SAM: It's a flint metal.
TALIESIN: Although, people have probably gotten
creative with that at that time, but the Percy
tech was just a flint. He was trying to do other
stuff and always failed.
SAM: With that knowledge, I will purchase any
other materials I will need to do this. I'm going
to take out the 20 arrows I grabbed from the Iron
Shepherds' house. I'm going to try to modify them,
using multiple arrowheads if needed, to make an
explosive arrowhead that's packed with some
gunpowder.
TALIESIN: It would be a bag at the front with a
flint that would spark on pressure. So as long as
you fired it hard, it would cause the spark when
it hit and detonate.
MATT: Make a tinker check.
SAM: Another tinkerer's check! I'm not a good
tinkerer.
LAURA: Ooh, look at your dice!
SAM: 11 plus three.
LAURA: Where did you get those?
SAM: I got them for free from somebody.
LAURA: Those are so pretty!
MARISHA: They're from Norse Foundry.
SAM: From Norse Foundry. Just a 14.
MATT: I'd say it'll cost you an additional 20 gold
in materials, because you fail multiple times
going through, and end up wasting a lot of
materials until, eventually, you get it right and
you're certain that this would be the one that
would function properly. So you have one explosive
arrow. You're not entirely certain what it does.
SAM: One explosive arrow.
TALIESIN: Welcome to tinkering, man.
SAM: I'll take the parts of the gun-- it's apart
now, right?
MATT: Yeah, they're separate individual pieces.
SAM: I can't put it back together?
MATT: You can certainly try.
SAM: All right, I'll try. That's a 15.
MATT: You reassemble it. It looks to be
functional.
SAM: Okay, and I will look at it and say: Whoever
invented this was a very smart person. She must
have been a very, very smart person indeed.
TALIESIN: Oh, she was.
SAM: Okay. Then I have one explosive arrow, maybe.
Great. I'd also like to purchase a pair of gloves
or have them made.
MATT: For show or comfort?
SAM: For comfort and show, human skin color, with
little fingernails embroidered at the end.
MATT: (laughs) All right, so you have this
commissioned.
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Because it is a commission and it is
specific, it'd probably be at the similar store
to where Beau got her reversible cloak made earlier
in the campaign. It would only take maybe two days
to get the materials together to match the color
you wanted, and then the embroidery, and finishing
the gloves for your size specifically. Since you'd
be a smaller frame. All in all, I'd say five gold
pieces. Which is pricey for a set of custom
gloves, but not based on the money you had made.
SAM: Oh, also, with that package I sent earlier, I
also included 100 gold pieces in it.
MATT: Okay, so mark that off.
SAM: And then one last thing. I'd like to approach
Jester, and ask her: Jester!
LAURA: Yes?
SAM: I need your help.
LAURA: What do you need help with?
SAM: You are a talented artiste.
LAURA: Yes, I am very talented.
SAM: But also, you've mentioned in the past that
you are an expert forger.
LAURA: Yes, I am! Have you seen my work?
Remember?
SAM: I've seen you draw dicks on things.
LAURA: Well, also I've written a lot of letters.
SAM: You don't really show us those too much.
LAURA: They're really good.
SAM: All right. And also, while you were captured,
I flipped through your book. It's excellent work.
If there were an art school or something, you
should send it in.
LAURA: Well, thank you. I did have really good
tutors when I was growing up.
SAM: I bet. I'd like you to help me forge a
letter. I'd like it to sound like it's from some
sort of legal entity or law firm or court or
something like that.
LAURA: Ooh. I'll use something like Esquire or
something in there, that sounds very--
SAM: Yes, yes, yes. And I'd like to-- oh, could
you not tell Caleb about this?
LAURA: Secrets?
SAM: It's a secret.
LAURA: I'm really good at keeping secrets. Okay.
SAM: I'd like it to read something like-- Oh! I'm
going to be sending it to the Solstryce Academy.
LAURA: (gasps) I know about that! That's where
Fjord wants to go. Are we writing this for Fjord?
SAM: No.
LAURA: Okay!
SAM: It's in Rexxentrum.
LAURA: Solstryce, yes, I know where it is.
MATT: Soltryce.
LAURA: Soltryce Academy.
SAM: The Soul Train Academy.
MATT: That's a good way to remember it.
SAM: Something like: "Greetings. Hello. To whom it
may concern."
LAURA: To whom it may concern.
SAM: "I am trying to reach a young lady named
Astrid, no last name given, who was a--"
LAURA: Wait. Do I say that? No last name given?
SAM: Yes. "Who was a student about 11 years ago at
your academy. She has inherited a bit of money
"from a distant relative: her uncle, Leonard
Highfin. He's from--"
LAURA: Leonard Hyphen? Hyphen what?
SAM: I don't-- Leonard Hyphen Leonard.
LAURA: Leonard Hyphen Leonard. Got it.
SAM: "From the town of Nigeria."
LAURA: Got it.
SAM: "And his estate has employed me to find her
in order to deliver the funds."
LAURA: (gasps) Vast sums of money. Right. The
funds, okay.
SAM: "Please reach out to her-- reach out to
me--"
LAURA: Oh shit. Now I've got to write it again
because you said it wrong. Hold on.
SAM: Sorry. I didn't know you were writing it as I
was saying. "Please reach out to me with her last
"known contact information or address. You can
write me in care of The Pillow Trove Hotel,
"Zadash. Attention--" I don't know. Attention what?
Mrs. Jester? Mrs. Dr. Jester?
LAURA: No. Mrs. Lavorre, Esquire.
SAM: Mrs. Lavorre, Esquire. "My legal practice
thanks you in advance. Thank you."
LAURA: The legal practice of Nott?
SAM: Nott and Brave.
LAURA: Nott and Brave Law Firm.
SAM: Yes.
LAURA: Okay, Nott and Brave Law Firm. Okay. And
then what now? Do you have a seal or something?
Because it would be sealed really fancy.
SAM: I don't know. On official letters, do you
kiss them with lipstick? Do you put a little
perfume on it? What do you do?
LAURA: You know what? I have my mom's lavender
oil. Hold on.
SAM: That'll make it even more official.
LAURA: Things that are from really fancy places,
they always have--
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: So I'm going to get it on my fingers and
handle the paper. So the paper smells like it was
handled by someone rich.
SAM: I've noticed sometimes in letters that I've
stolen from the post, fancy ones anyway, sometimes
you pull out the letter and then there's this
other piece of tissue paper in there for no
reason.
LAURA: Yes. We'll do something like that. I use
another piece of paper because I don't have any
kind of tissue paper.
SAM: Just a blank one. All right, and then we mail
it to the Soltryce Academy.
LAURA: Okay, wait! We need a really fancy seal. We
need wax.
SAM: Do we have any wax?
LAURA: I bet Caleb has wax.
SAM: We can't tell him about this.
LAURA: Okay. Do you know where any candles are?
SAM: There's candles everywhere.
LAURA: Let's take a candle from around the room.
And then we'll stamp it with a ring! One of my rings.
SAM: Oh, perfect!
LAURA: Okay, which one is the flattest? This one.
It's got a rose on it.
MATT: Okay. Two things. One, I would like you to
roll for your forgery.
SAM: It's a bunch of candle wax. White wax.
MARISHA: Plain beeswax.
MATT: Are you proficient with your forgery kit?
LAURA: Well, I have a forgery kit. How do I know
if I'm proficient? Hold on. I think I am because
of my background. Yes. No. Yes. I don't know.
MATT: I think you should, depending on your--
LAURA: Hold on. I'm opening my-- yeah!
Proficiencies and languages. Forgery kit.
MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and roll a d20. Add your
intelligence modifier and your proficiency bonus.
LAURA: Why intelligence? Can it be the wisdom?
MATT: Actually, no. Let's make it dexterity.
LAURA: Okay. Plus what? My proficiency?
MATT: Proficiency bonus and your intelligence
modifier. Dex, I'm sorry.
LAURA: That's 12 plus three, is 15.
MATT: You manage to forge the letter in what you
believe to be a fairly decent forgery.
LAURA: A really good forgery.
SAM: It looks like it!
MATT: You're not matching somebody's handwriting,
per se. It's more about getting an officious look
to it, with little flourishes of calligraphy at
the beginning of sentences.
SAM: Like a big first letter?
MATT: Exactly. I would like you to roll a general
dexterity check for me.
LAURA: Did you see that? It was really trying.
Dexterity check? Ten.
MATT: Okay. There's a difference between sealing
wax and candle wax. How do I know this? Because
I've made that mistake before, sealing letters for
previous D&D campaigns. You manage to press your
ring into the wax and pull back, and now there's
mush on the end of your ring, and there's a
circular piece of mushed soft wax where the seal
should be.
LAURA: This is pretty shitty.
SAM: We need sealing wax.
LAURA: We need actual sealing wax. I peel it up.
SAM: Can you go get some from the stiggity store?
LAURA: Yeah. I'll go to the store and buy some
sealing wax.
MATT: Sealing wax, it's not too expensive. We'll
say two silver to get you a chunk.
LAURA: Two silver for this wax! You better be
really grateful!
SAM: I'll pay for postage.
LAURA: Okay. Now I can send letters to my mom with
a really cool seal!
SAM: Oh! So you did need it.
MATT: There you go. You finish the letter. You
seal it best to your ability. You hope it seems
official enough, and you send it off towards its
destination in Rexxentrum.
LAURA: Boop!
SAM: Thank you.
LAURA: You're welcome.
SAM: Please don't tell Caleb; he might get upset.
I think that this is someone from his past who
might be able to, you know, make him think of
happier times.
LAURA: Who? Astrid?
SAM: Yes.
LAURA: (gasps) That's the name he said to me when
we were dancing. Did you know?
SAM: No.
LAURA: Yes, we were dancing. We were waltzing. It
was really lovely. He was very drunk.
SAM: Yes, I remember that night.
LAURA: And then he said something about Astrid.
SAM: He misses her.
LAURA: Was it his girlfriend?
SAM: I think so. You know, I don't know which way
he swings, but he could really get any girl he
wanted to.
LAURA: He's very handsome, especially when he
shaves. You can see the little butt chin he has.
It's really nice.
SAM: That's nice. Well, I hope it works.
LAURA: Me too.
SAM: End scene.
MATT: End scene, all right. Is that the extent of
the things you want to accomplish, Nott?
SAM: I mean, I don't want to take too much time.
I'm good.
MATT: Okay. All righty, who wants to step up
next?
LIAM: I was the second-to-last to say--
MATT: That's true, so Caleb.
LIAM: Ja, I have some things that I want to
accomplish on my own and then I also need to have
a conversation with Beauregard, but before that I
need to go shopping. I have a list of things I
want to do, actually.
TRAVIS: (deadpan) Wait, let me come along.
LIAM: Do you want to go shopping? Travis, are you
sure?
MARISHA: Are you going to Pumat's?
TALIESIN: Let me come along if you're going
shopping.
LIAM: Ja. Oh, what are you in the market for?
TALIESIN: Well, I figure if we're going to be
traveling together, we should probably have some
supplies. I'm looking for some diamonds for some
things I know how to do.
LIAM: Oh, well we have some fellows you could
meet.
MARISHA: Guys, let's all go shopping!
TALIESIN: That's great.
MARISHA: We just got money!
LIAM: I have a lot of money.
MARISHA: I'm coming.
LIAM: Let's go shopping.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: So the four of you, Jester, Caduceus, Caleb,
and Beauregard, are going shopping.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, all right. Well, what are you guys
looking for?
TRAVIS: Catch y'all on the flip.
LIAM: Go see that beautiful baby, Travis.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Going on a trip.
MARISHA: I want to go to Pumat.
MATT: Okay. Midday, you make your way to the
Pentamarket, to the very vibrant center area of the
marketplace there. There's a number of
intersecting pathways that help divide between all
the various carts and tents that open up. At this
point, I'd say it's maybe late morning or so. A
lot of the curled up curtains in the front are
being affixed to the top or have been for a while.
The smells of fresh baked goods, cooking stews,
and various other treats and snacks that are being
presented as part of the shopping experience catch
your nostrils as you move through. You hear music
playing in the distance. For all the chaos that
life has thrown you in the past 30 days, it feels
nice to step into a place that's so filled with
life and lack of understanding of how dark the
world is at the fringes of this empire, both with
the war going on and some of the things you've
encountered. It's nice to step into this space and
you catch yourself instinctually smiling and
finding it infectious to brighten your mood. You
turn to see the darkened green wood with gold
accoutrements that marks the exterior of The
Invulnerable Vagrant. The front door is closed,
but appears to be not locked for any particular
reason.
MARISHA: I have such a clear picture in my head,
now that we've built it.
MATT: Now that we've physically built it, yeah.
It's a little larger in-world than the one that we did.
MARISHA: But the aesthetic.
MATT: But the aesthetic is there, yeah. As you
step forward, the door opens up and leads you
inside, and there the same warmly lit interior
with the glowing chandelier above greets you.
Across the way, sitting behind the desk, face down
in a book, one of the various Pumats, who looks up
and, "Oh, why hello there! Yeah, oh, it's been a
while. Sorry, took me a second to recognize
"you. You're very silhouetted by the bright
sunshine outside you right now and it's a bit dark
"interior, so come on up!"
MARISHA: We do always seem to come around 4:00pm,
right when the sun is coming in the window.
LAURA: I run in.
MATT: Another Pumat comes around the corner and
goes, "Oh, do we have folks in here?" "Yeah, don't
"worry, Pumat, I got them taken care of. Oh,
there's even more coming in."
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. Cool, twins. Right. That's
cool. I like this place. This is nice.
MARISHA: Pumat III, this is Caduceus.
MATT: "Caduceus! Why, it's a pleasure to meet you
as well."
TALIESIN: It's a pleasure to meet you.
MATT: "Don't see many of our kind wandering around
these large establishments."
TALIESIN: You're the first one I've seen in the
city so far. That's pretty crazy. This is
nice. Is this yours?
MATT: "Well, it's ours. Well, it's his. Hey,
Prime! You might want to step out of the workshop
"for a second." You hear some rustling and
grumbling in the background, and the curtain opens
and you see a third one of them step out, goggles
affixed to the head, a little bit of smudges of
dirt on the edges of the chin. "What are you
talking about? Oh my goodness."
TALIESIN: You're all brothers, then? There's three
of you now. Triplets. That's great. That's great!
Don't see that very often.
MATT: "Where are you from? To be perfectly honest,
we haven't really run into any other firbolgs
"really since we came here."
TALIESIN: Oh, me neither. I'm actually from up
north. I'm traveling with these kids, working on
something. It's nice.
MATT: "Wow."
TALIESIN: How long have you been down here? This
place is great. This is great.
MATT: "Well, thank you." At this point, the fourth
one comes down from a ladder off on the right side
chamber. "Oh, is the order getting-- Oh, it's a
whole party over here! Is that another firbolg?"
Comes down and the other's like, "Yeah, there's
one over here." The other Pumat's like, "I'm
"impressed. I like the color tones. It's a great
arrangement, visual perspective."
TALIESIN: Impressed by what your mother went
through, at this point. This is intense. There's a
lot of you.
MATT: The one with the goggles in the back goes,
"Sorry about that. I should clarify. These three
"are arcane-based copies of myself. We are all
collectively Pumat, but I am the original."
TALIESIN: Well, that's the best thing I've ever
seen. That's crazy. That's just great. I'd love to
learn how to do that.
LAURA: You shouldn't call them "arcane copies."
They have their own personalities and their own
self. You should appreciate them.
MATT: One of the other ones speaks up and goes,
"We absolutely take no offense, because it's true."
LAURA: Well, all right, but I think each and every
one of you is unique in your own way and you
should really appreciate it!
MATT: The three simulacrum all go, "Aww" at the
same time.
LAURA: I go back to rearranging the shelf.
TALIESIN: It's nice to see another firbolg out in
the world doing something, and you seem like
you're really building something great here. This
is spectacular.
MATT: "Well, I greatly appreciate that. We put a
lot of hard work into it and it's hard to come
"across folks like us that would appreciate
something on this scale."
TALIESIN: You might know. Is there anything I
absolutely should see while I'm in town? This is
the farthest I've been from home. I'm curious if
there's anything in this city that a firbolg out
taking a look around should--
MATT: "Well, unless I am mistaken, from my
previous memory of times outside of Zadash, when's
"the last time you had a good bath?"
TALIESIN: Well, I had a hot spring, which was
nice. I mean, it had some sulfur content and there
were some minerals in there that were probably a
bit iffy.
LIAM: The baths here are quite lovely.
MATT: "This one knows what he's talking about.
Listen to him. Follow that around."
MARISHA: What are we talking about?
MATT: "Oh, sorry. Did you come here to do
business?"
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Prime goes, "All right, then. Nice to meet
you--?"
TALIESIN: Caduceus Clay. Pleasure.
MATT: "Caduceus Clay. Pumat Sol. Pleasure."
TALIESIN: Look forward to doing business with
yous.
MATT: "Of course, you got gold, we've got things
to purchase. Anyway, other Pumats, take care of
"these folks. I've got to get back to work. Good to
see you all again."
LAURA: Bye, Prime.
MATT: He exits to the back room. The two other
Pumats step back and watch, and they're both
looking at you with this kind of--
TALIESIN: He seems like a decent boss. That seems
nice.
MATT: "Not too bad. People say you want to be your
own boss, well--"
(laughter)
TALIESIN: That's really good.
LIAM: It feels weird to interrupt whatever this
is.
MARISHA: I'm hungry, so.
MATT: "Unfortunately, we don't really sell much in
the realm of food items."
LIAM: I am in the market for some things of arcane
nature. Oh, I see you're reading a book. What are
you reading?
MARISHA: Ugh, god, no more small talk! You still
have those bracers?
MATT: "We do, actually. To be perfectly honest,
you mostly cleaned us out last time you were in
"here, but we've got a few more items in here."
MARISHA: Yeah, what's up with those bracers?
MATT: "We got the bracers here, if that's what
you're looking for."
MARISHA: Have they come down in price?
MATT: "No."
MARISHA: They've been sitting on a shelf for six
weeks.
MATT: "Yeah."
MARISHA: So, you know.
MATT: "And six weeks later, you're coming in and
asking about them still."
LAURA: He does have a point there.
MARISHA: You know what, Jester?
MATT: "But yeah, price is still 1200 gold
pieces."
MARISHA: All right. What do they do again? Can you
explain one more time?
MATT: "These bracers, enchanted by our fantastic
boss, Pumat Sol, allow the bearer, as long as
"they're not wearing any physical armor to impede
the enchantment and/or a shield on their body,
"helps protect them by deflecting incoming blows
and giving them a better sense of avoiding
"physical atrocity onto their person."
LAURA: It's like they were specially made for you,
Beau. You have to buy them. I think you should
charge her more.
MARISHA: What? Whose side are you on, here?
LAURA: I feel like you're a very specialized sort
of buyer, is all.
MARISHA: Right, so if anything, he should give me
a bargain.
LAURA: Oh, you should give her a deal!
MATT: "How about we meet in the middle and we
stick with the price provided?"
TALIESIN: Seems fair.
MARISHA: You threw him off, Jester.
LAURA: I'm sorry. I got confused.
LIAM: Terrible wingwoman.
MARISHA: Look, we might be purchasing a few
things, so why don't we wait and see what all ends
up on the counter and then we'll come back.
MATT: "All right, we'll put this here waiting for
you right there."
MARISHA: Can I look at it? Can I touch it?
MATT: "Yeah." You can look at it, but you don't
own it.
LIAM: Herr Pumat, I am considering spending
about a thousand gold here and I'd be more likely
to do so if maybe you could give us a better price
for these things here.
MATT: "That can be considered, depending on how
much of a purchase you're looking to make. What
"are you looking for?"
LIAM: Well, I need--
(laughter)
MATT: Don't think I've forgotten that silly
string.
LIAM: I need quite a bit of your finest paper and
ink. I have a dearth of scroll-- a dearth. A
mighty dearth.
MARISHA: Girth.
LIAM: That's a different conversation, danke. I
need about roughly 500 or 600 gold's worth of your
finest paper and ink.
LAURA: Caleb, save 300 gold because we need
diamonds.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to be buying some
diamonds. I wouldn't worry about that.
MATT: "If that's the case, if you don't mind
waiting, Pumat III, could you go to our storage
"facility and get some more of that wizard paper
and ink? It looks like he's buying out our stock
"here at the moment." "Yeah, not a worry. I'll be
back here in the better part of 30 or 40 minutes,
"if you don't mind being patient." That one Pumat
takes a little cloak and throws it over his
shoulders. "See you guys in a little bit!" And
exits outside.
LIAM: There's still one left?
MATT: There's three in the room left behind. One
of them had drifted off to the side for a bit, but
seems to be still listening in. So you still have
the one that's dealing with you.
LIAM: I also need incense. Fine incense. About 60
gold worth, if you have that much on hand.
MATT: "We don't have a whole lot of incense here.
I can probably provide about 20 gold worth of
"incense. But there are incense makers within
Zadash that I'm sure can probably help you out
"with the rest of it."
LIAM: So just not here.
LAURA: I remember you asking him for incense
before from him, I think.
LIAM: Yeah, I used it. It's all gone. Just like my
cat.
MATT: "We can definitely look to ordering more
incense if you foresee this being a consistent
"thing. We normally don't get that much of a
request for it."
LIAM: Obviously this is a bit of a regular thing.
If, you know, the exchange rate is good. I don't
need more than the 20 gold's worth of incense
today, if you can order more. We're going to stay
put for a little while, ja?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Maybe.
MARISHA: What's the turnaround-- what?
LIAM: I'll ask you later. Also-- oh dear. I need
that, and I need that. Oh, yes, I was hoping to
look through your selection of spells you have
yourself. Nothing too majestic, but I have a short list.
MATT: "Feel free to ask and I'll go ahead--" and
he grabs this small wood front, wood back, with
leather edging binding ledger or catalog that he
pulls out and opens it up, "Yeah, let me know what
"you're looking for. I'll tell you if we got one in
stock."
LIAM: If you could flip to the transmutation.
MATT: Takes a little set of glasses and puts them
on the edge of his nose. "All right."
LIAM: I'm looking for one that can help if your
friends are falling and you don't want them to
fall so hard.
MATT: "Feather Fall. We got that, sure."
LIAM: Okay. I get hurt very easily and I need
something to help me get out of Dodge a little bit
quicker.
MATT: "All right, there's a few options there. For
lower level enchantments, we got an Expeditious
"Retreat spell. That'll help get you out of the
thick of things."
LIAM: That's a winner.
MATT: "All right, that's putting that down as well
as a possibility. Those prices here, because
"they're both relatively simple spells, so I'll put
them at about 100 gold apiece. That's 200 gold
"total for those two spells."
LIAM: And do you have something that can, say,
catapult things around the room?
LAURA: I can do that for you.
MARISHA: Yeah, me too.
LIAM: But I also want to be able to do it.
MATT: "Yeah, well, here. Let's see. In the realm
of what you're looking to accomplish here--"
LAURA: I pick up something and throw it across the
room.
LIAM: I'm not paying for that.
TRAVIS: That's some Odyssey of the Mind stuff,
right there.
MARISHA: I agree with Jester here.
MATT: "So you're going directly, not messing
around, just a straight Catapult."
MARISHA: That's so 1994 of you!
TRAVIS: Straight up catapult?
LIAM: Ja. Straight Up Catapult, is that what
it's called? I'll take that as well.
TALISEN: Are you going to sell him a tiny catapult
that he has to assemble himself?
MATT: It's a straight up catapult. "Catapult,
yeah, we do have that as well. That is 300 gold
"for the batch of three. Any more spells you're
inquiring about?"
LIAM: No. There are so many, but I am of a limited
budget. I'll think about it if you can help my
friend Beauregard with a good price on those.
LAURA: I also might want to buy weapons, if you
have a weapon that is also really cool and stuff.
MATT: "Here, I'll show you what we've been able to
accomplish since your absence. Weapon-wise, this
"wasn't enchanted more than it was something that
came into our purview from somebody that was
"looking hard for some cash and we offered them a
bit of an exchange, as it was promising and
"intriguing." He pulls out this longsword, but
beyond the hilt the blade is snapped and gone.
It's a broken longsword. It's got a silver hilt
and a silver pommel wrapped in red leathers around
the handle, and there is a very fine filigree
across the hilt and around the base, this silver
loop on the bottom of the pommel. But it's a
broken sword.
LAURA: Are we going to get it fixed? Or can I
still stab people with the broken part?
MATT: "You've got about an inch of blade there and
it looks like it's still sharp in places. If you
"get real close you can probably make someone have
a really bad day."
LAURA: What does it do?
MATT: "Well, looking it over, it looks like there
was some sort of enchantment embedded in it, but
"since the blade has been broken, there's not-- it
looks to be very old. Looks like it probably was a
"relic from pre--" He goes and looks at his notes
real fast. "Yeah, this would be pre-Divergence,
"from the Age of Arcanum. The reason we took it is
the historical significance. We could probably
"fetch a pretty penny should we take it to the
various lyceums. The Academy would probably be
"real interested. But if you want to take it off
for sentimental value or go get it repaired some
"time, it's 300 gold."
LAURA: Well, I mean, I'll look at it. I don't
know. It's pretty broken-looking.
TRAVIS: (strained) Buy it.
MATT: "Prime finished up some of this dust here,"
and he pulls out a small sack that looks to be a
red-brown dust. He says, "He's proud of this one,
I'm going to be real honest with you. If it's
"sprinkled over any edible substance, it greatly
improves the flavor. To the point where it's
"downright distracting. It's the Dust of
Deliciousness."
LAURA: Oh my goodness!
TALIESIN: That's so exciting.
LAURA: That's a very exciting thing. Oh, that's
expensive. Seems like something you could hold.
TALIESIN: I'll take that.
MATT: "Last thing we've got here, and then we're
pretty much out at the moment. You guys have
"become our number one customers, which is really
appreciated. Just finished this cloak last week
"here." He steps around the edge and you can see,
while as well decorated as the place is, it's
pretty bare now. You guys have come through and
grabbed the necessary bits and what else was in
there has been picked up as well. You guys aren't
the only people who shop here, but you've been the
most recent, intense customers. He pulls this fine
bluish, purple-tint cloak material, that as it
flows, as he lifts it up from behind the small
locked box, it ever so faintly gives off this
shimmer. "This is designed to obfuscate the
movements of the person who wears it, to where it
"makes him a little more difficult to pay
attention. The enchantments here," and he looks
back, and you can see it, right along the hood of
it, there's these faint little runes. He goes,
"This is some-- these are Sylvan. I don't know if
any of you read more the classics."
TALIESIN: I read Sylvan, and there you are.
MATT: "Well, there you go. This is specifically a
cloak with an elven enchantment, designed to help
"make things difficult to see. So there's that one
as well."
TALIESIN: Yep, let's take a look at that.
MATT: "That's all we got."
LAURA and TALIESIN: Ooh.
LAURA: That's pretty cool.
LIAM: How much is that running for?
TALIESIN: 450.
LAURA: Question.
MATT: "Yeah, an answer."
LAURA: Is there anywhere else around town I could
get an enchanted weapon of some sort?
MATT: "Unfortunately, enchanted weaponry is a very
specialized--"
LAURA: But everybody else has really cool weapons,
and I just have an axe.
MATT: "Oh. I'm sorry about that. If you want to
commission an axe, we can start working on
"enchanting one for you."
LAURA: How much would that cost?
MATT: "Well, it depends on what sort of
enchantment you're looking for. If you just--"
LAURA: Something that makes me really cool.
MATT: "Okay."
LAURA: That would make me hit really hard and
probably open wounds that don't close ever, and
maybe poison people, and also turn them into
candy.
MATT: The other Pumat is now looking over from the
other room and going like-- He's like, "We'll have
"to talk to Prime about that. Prime?" Comes out.
"Yeah." He's like, "She wants to see if you could
"enchant an axe that hits really hard and is
really cool and wounds don't close and--"
LAURA: Yeah, you know, really bad wounds, also it
really hurts a lot, and it makes people turn pink,
and also it makes people, like, start dancing and
stuff.
MATT: You watch as Pumat Prime is actually, in his
head, doing math. "I could probably manage
"something like that. I got about an eight-month
window for completion, and it would probably run
"you about... between ten to twelve thousand gold."
LIAM: (continually coughs)
TRAVIS: You haven't come this far.
LAURA: Seems like a really reasonable price for
all those things.
MATT: "Oh, I can guarantee it. Won't find anything
better than that, for a specified number of
"enchantments, this side of Rexxentrum."
LAURA: What about just one of those enchantments?
What about it just makes people start dancing?
TALIESIN: Axe dance!
MATT: "So you want a weapon that, when it hits
somebody, they start dancing?"
LAURA: They go. Yeah, and they can't stop. It's
like, it would be really hard for them to stop.
MATT: "All right. So the only enchantment you're
requiring is the possible ability of making
"something dance uncontrollably."
LAURA: Oh my god, that would be so cool!
MATT: "All right."
MARISHA: I really liked the candy thing, by the
way.
LAURA: I feel like that would be harder.
MARISHA: Maybe they can just decorate it to look
like candy.
LAURA: Maybe I could decorate it to look like
candy.
MARISHA: Oh, craft night!
LIAM: Sad you're not here?
TRAVIS: Yep, so much.
SAM: Shopping and crafts, Travis!
TRAVIS: Oh, god.
MATT: Welcome back, man.
TRAVIS: Take both my eyes.
TALIESIN: Do you have your journaling kit? Are you
proficient?
TRAVIS: What's on TV, babe? HG-- nope, I'm out.
MARISHA: Michael's had a stationery sale!
MATT: "There we go. That's going to be-- It's
doable. It's pricey. That one will put you about
"8,000 gold."
SAM: Jesus!
LAURA: I don't have that much either. Wait, do I?
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: No, I don't.
TRAVIS: How about layaway?
MATT: "Sorry. If you want just something that's
pretty sharp and helps you hit a little better, I
"could do that for much cheaper."
LAURA: How much?
MATT: "Let's see. That one will put you back
about, I'd say, maybe 400 gold?"
LAURA: Ooh! That sounds way better!
MATT: "Could finish that in about four or five
days, yeah."
LAURA: Whoa! Okay, I'll do that!
MATT: "All righty, just provide the weapon, and
we'll get that taken care of for you."
LAURA: Here, take this one.
MATT: "Okay." What kind of axe is it?
LAURA: It's an axe.
TRAVIS: Handaxe.
LAURA: It's a handaxe.
MATT: Handaxe. Okay, so it can be thrown as well.
LAURA: Ooh! Yes, it can.
TRAVIS: Did you just now realize that?
LAURA: Yep!
MATT: "All right. We'll go ahead and we'll get
right on that for you, not a worry."
LAURA: Sweet!
MATT: "So that'd be 400 gold for that."
LAURA: Okay!
MATT: "Put that in the pot right there, since
you're looking for possibly other purchases.
"That's 400 gold pieces. What else you looking to
buy?"
TALIESIN: I'm thinking I'm--
LAURA: I mean, we should get that, right?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, no, I think I want--
LAURA: Longswords aren't simple weapons, so I
can't?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: But I don't know. I like broken things.
SAM: (cooing) What about the cloak?
TALIESIN: Oh, no, we're getting the cloak.
MATT: "All right, so that's--"
TALIESIN: Caleb, do you want to split that cloak
with me, maybe?
LIAM: Oh, I'm allocating my funds to other things,
my friend, I'm sorry.
TALIESIN: Oh well, I'll get the cloak then.
LAURA: I'll help you get the cloak.
MARISHA: Well, here's the deal, Pumat. What was
that you said five or so minutes ago about us
being your number one customers?
LAURA: Ooh, yeah, and you would give us a deal if
we bought a whole bunch of stuff?
TALIESIN: Is this where we go for the diamonds,
too?
LIAM: I am dropping a total, if we're all
amenable, 960 gold on various things, and I think
that is a pretty good pile. Maybe you could knock
a couple hundred off of the price of those
bracers.
MATT: Make a persuasion check, with advantage
since everybody's helping you.
MARISHA: Come on! Get it! That's good!
LIAM: Yeah, that is a 21.
MATT: You see the Pumats talking to you kind of,
"Let me go ahead and have a conversation with the
"boss man. Hold on just a second." Turns around the
corner. You hear some hushed voices. "Yeah, fine,
"sure." He comes back out, "All right, we got
ourselves an approval for a discount there. We'll
"be happy to knock about a hundred gold off that
total price for you, if that's amenable to you."
TALIESIN: That's pretty amenable.
LAURA: Sure. All of us save 20 gold, still pretty
good.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's about it.
MATT: "All right, so who's buying what?"
LAURA: 25 gold!
TALIESIN: I'm getting the sword and the cloak.
MATT: "Sword and the cloak."
LAURA: I'm going halvsies on the cloak with him.
TALIESIN: Oh, well, thank you.
MATT: "All righty. Well, here."
MARISHA: I'll take those bracers.
MATT: "Well here, I'll do a total price here, and
then you guys can--"
LIAM: 872, 873, 874.
LAURA and SAM: Oh, no.
MATT: "It's 400 for getting your handaxe
enchanted."
LAURA: Yes, and then another two because I'm going
in halvsies on the cloak.
LIAM: 949.
MATT: "Well, I'm doing a total amount here first,
don't-- You guys can decide how to divvy it up for you."
LIAM: 951, 952.
SAM: Do you take cards?
MATT: "So that's 450 for the cloak. That's 1,200
for the bracers. That's 300 for the handle. No dust?"
TALIESIN: No, we'll pass on the dust for now. It's
interesting.
MATT: "And then you got a-- and then 300 for the
spells."
LIAM: Yeah, and 600 gold with of paper and ink,
and then 20 for all the incense you have right
now, and I'm going to leave 40 in advance for more
incense coming.
MATT: "Hold on a second there. So it's 300 worth
of spells, and you said 600 worth of paper and
"ink, right?" At this time you guys have been
discussing, the other Pumat comes back with his
cloak with a big old crate in his hand and goes,
"Got the rest of the paper and ink. Hold on." Sets
it down.
LIAM: Oh, jeez.
MATT: "Then that is 20 gold for your incense?"
LIAM: I would like to give you 60 gold now for
that much incense. I understand you only have
about 20 now, but I know you're good for the rest,
so I'll just pay in advance.
MATT: "All right. Are you guys all marking off
your amounts?"
MARISHA: Yeah. Costs?
TALIESIN: Well, we're waiting for the total, but
yeah.
MARISHA: I'm taking just 25 gold off of my
bracers.
MATT: "Based on how many pieces you've thrown at
me, it's probably better to have you all just
"deduct what you've spent individually. I was going
to try that, but then..."
MARISHA: No.
MATT: "That got a little chaotic there."
MARISHA: Give me them bracers!
MATT: "All righty, so there's your sword, there's
your bracers, there's your cloak."
LAURA: With the dust of deliciousness, is that one
use, or multiple uses?
MATT: "Six servings of dust in this."
TALIESIN: That's why I was like hmm.
LAURA: That's still pretty good.
TALIESIN: It's still good, but--
LAURA: (whispers) Okay, I want some of that, too.
MATT: "All right. Well, there you go. Go ahead and
mark off that amount there as well. When all is
"said and done, when you've marked off your
amounts, here's a hundred gold back. You may
"redistribute it as you see fit."
TRAVIS: Oh, shit, you got a hundred dollar
rebate!
MARISHA: We got a rebate, 100 gold!
LAURA: Really?
MATT: Well, that was what you haggled them down.
TRAVIS and LAURA: Oh.
MARISHA: Oh, so we're-- Okay, we're good.
MATT: It just makes it easier than adding.
LAURA: Will you take five gold off of the dust
because you like me?
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
TALIESIN: We all take 25-- We each saved 25 gold.
MARISHA: 25 gold.
SAM: What?
LAURA: That means he likes me! 20!
MATT: "Well, only because you asked so nice, but
don't tell the boss."
LAURA: (whispers) I won't.
MATT: "All right?"
LAURA: Cool.
MARISHA: Feels so good! Feels like real shopping;
I get a shopping high! Cathartic!
MATT: "So I'll see you back here in about five
days or so there, Jester, and we should have a
"fresh, new, enchanted handaxe there for you."
LAURA: Okay!
MATT: "All righty. Well, it's been a pleasure."
LIAM: Thank you for your business. What was that
book that you were reading?
MATT: "Oh, it's--" He pulls it up again. "It's
that Taryon fellow, or whatever. But I'm most of
"the way through it. Kind of a slow reader."
LIAM: Are you the last Pumat of the Pumats to read
it?
MATT: "Yeah, we've been kind of passing it around
as we each finish it."
LIAM: Hmm. You should form a book club.
MATT: "I'll ask him. Really appreciate the
suggestion."
LIAM: Well, thank you for your business, I have a
lot to do. And I am going to attempt to lift the
crate of paper.
TALIESIN: I can help with that.
LIAM: Oh, thank you.
TALIESIN: Yep. (grunts) Yeah, that's-- Oh, that's
heavy.
LIAM: With the legs.
TALIESIN: (grunts)
LIAM: Exeunt.
MATT: Most of the weight is the materials that
contain the paper. The paper isn't very heavy, but
because it is specifically designed and made for
the uses of inscribing and enchantment and other
things, it is contained in very, very careful,
protective wooden boxes. They're all stacked
repeatedly within this crate.
LIAM: And I guess as we're leaving, walking along,
Beauregard, who's sort of googling at her new
bracers, do you have any plans--
MARISHA: Do they look cool?
LIAM: I don't know how to answer that.
MATT: "Hey, Caduceus! Pleasure to meet you."
TALIESIN: Oh, it's a pleasure to meet you, as
well. I'm sure we'll see each other again real soon.
MATT: "We'll hope so. Brightened up the room."
TALIESIN: Oh, thank you. And what a room to
brighten.
MATT: "Aww, you're too kind."
TALIESIN: You're the best.
MARISHA: Do they, like, go with the outfit,
though?
LIAM: You look angry.
MARISHA: Yeah? Dope.
LIAM: Do you have any, er, plans to-- well, I
would like to, I don't know if you want to. But
may I go to the library again with you?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Oh, thank you.
MARISHA: I'm going back probably tomorrow, next
day, something like that.
LIAM: Oh, for a day or two?
MARISHA: I was thinking like an extended weekend.
Like a Friday-to-Monday, four-days-three-nights
type of thing, if you're down.
LIAM: Er, yes. If you wouldn't mind, I would be
very--
MARISHA: You don't have to stay the whole time,
but that's what I'm going to do. You can do whatever the
fuck you want.
LIAM: If they give me-- Would I be allowed to
peruse this--
MARISHA: I'm not your fucking babysitter.
LIAM: I did not say you were my babysitter! I just
wanted to look at the books!
MARISHA: Just want to get that out there.
LIAM: I don't know why you had that in your mind!
I just want to look-- Thank you. And I walk off
with my paper.
TALIESIN: We're going to be looking for a gem
shop. And also, if there's an herb shop. I've been
meaning to learn how to make healing potions. I've
gotten a little bit of a basic understanding.
LIAM: (whispers) I do have a couple things left on
my to-do list though, okay?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: And some general shopping that's just
some stuff that doesn't really have--
MATT: Yeah, there's Grace of the Wilds, which is
in the Pentamarket district. You find it. You in
particular, you find it very quickly because
you're attuned to the smell of some of the herbs
and various mosses that they're been cultivating
and drying out there. You're like, (sniffs).
That's familiar. (sniffs) Yeah. And so, much like
Toucan Sam, you follow your nose--
TALIESIN: It always knows!
MATT: --to Grace of the Wilds, and there you see a
female woman, 50s, with kind of wild, big, black,
curly hair, who's just sitting there. Nobody else
is paying mind to the front, little tent that she
has set up that is attached to what appears to
be the rest of her shop, which is mostly
closed-off and dark. As you approach, she glances
over and goes, "Hah! Hi! Can I help you? What do
you need, what do you need? What can I do?"
LAURA: Hi! Are you Grace?
MATT: "No, I'm Jesna Bree. But this is Grace of
the Wilds, this is my shop. But welcome! Welcome.
"Welcome, welcome."
TALIESIN: I'm still playing catch-up, one second.
Hi! I was curious-- I was looking to maybe start
learning how to make some healing potions of some
kind--
MATT: "For training? You want to train?"
TALIESIN: Well, yeah. I mean, if that's possible.
And also, I'm-- just some stuff for cooking. And
otherwise I'm just looking for a nice general set
of a few things. I've got a list here, just some
food flavors as well.
MATT: "Of course, of course! Just give me your
list, I'd like to see."
TALIESIN: Oh, sure. This is actually my general--
MATT: I know. I figured. "Oh. Ah. Okay, yeah!" And
as she's talking to you, you watch as her other
hand takes a piece of chalk and is writing on the
wall behind her. "I'd be more than happy to help,
and I can help! A lot of things I can help you
with too, and I'm happy to!" And then, in kind of
crappy handwriting underneath all the various
prices of the herbs and things that are provided
you now see 'training.' She's added it to her list
of things that she does, as talking to you.
TALIESIN: You're probably the person to ask if
there's a good tea shop in town. I feel like you'd
probably know where to get a nice caffeinated
beverage.
MATT: "Oh! Oh, yes. Oh yes. Oh yes, I can help
with the tea. The tea? I can help
"with. So, training! What do you want to train in?
Please, tell me."
TALIESIN: I've been hoping to learn how to make
healing potions, actually, in general. Just start
to kind of break in that, uh--
MATT: "Okay, okay. Okay, that can be done. It may
take some time. Little bit of time. Give me your
"time, we'll make it work."
TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh my god, she's got a caffeine
fucking IV under the desk. Holy shit.
MATT: The herbalism kit for this is-- It's five--
you already have one.
TALIESIN: I have an herbalism kit, I just want
to-- do I need a special proficiency or get the
ingredients to help make one. I do have the
herbalism kit.
MATT: Yeah, you would be purchasing proficiencies,
the training is what you would be doing. This
would be the bulk of your downtime, because it
will take a while for you to really get--
TALIESIN: I only had a couple other light things I
was going to do anyway.
MATT: But the full training for this will come to
about, I'll say, 200 gold.
TALIESIN: I can do that.
MATT: And you are now proficient in the herbalism
kit.
TALIESIN: Actually, I was already proficient in
the herbalism kit, I was just specifically looking
for the stuff to make the potions.
MATT: Oh, I misunderstood! Oh!
TALIESIN: No, I got that already. I've never--
Back when I did this they didn't have all this
craziness.
MATT: I've got you. Well, if that's the case,
buying the materials-- You're essentially buying
them at half-price. You can make healing potions,
but you get to make them at 25 gold apiece, as
opposed to 50.
TALIESIN: Sure! I'll get-- Let's get 150 gold
worth of that, and then probably some cooking
spices, too.
MATT: Okay, yeah. Cooking spices will run you a
gold for the full set.
TALIESIN: Oh, so it's 151. Anything else of
interest or otherwise? Maybe some good beverages
or otherwise there?
MATT: You can find a whole bevy of beverages all
throughout the Pentamarket.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll find other stuff otherwise.
Other than that I've got diamonds and some-- I'm
looking for some general store kind of stuff.
MATT: Okay. So at 150 gold, (counting) that's six
healing potions that you have the materials to
make. But you can spend your downtime during this
week to make a few, if you'd like.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: That'll put you at about one potion per day
of creation. So you can easily take this time to
make all six.
TALIESIN: Oh, easily.
MATT: They're baseline healing potions, level one,
but you should be able to do so. Cool. And you
made a friend with Jasna Bree!
TALIESIN: Wow, that's a lot.
MATT: She's a little sad that she doesn't get a
chance to teach you or train you, but she's like,
"That's okay, next time! Next time. Whenever you
feel like it, you come on by. I'll teach you. No
"worries."
TALIESIN: Oh, that's excellent.
LAURA: Deuce.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: We need to buy some diamonds.
TALIESIN: We need diamonds. I also need a new tea
kettle. But yeah, we need diamonds.
MATT: A tea kettle you can get.
TALIESIN: I need a-- I want a tea kettle, I want
some new cookware, I want some kitchen supplies, I
want a straw hat. I would like a hat. It's hot
out. There's the sun, and I can feel the sun, it's
as if I've been in the sun all day.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Not quite this hat, but it's in the
right direction.
TRAVIS: Wider brim?
TALIESIN: Wider brim. Wider brim.
MATT: I'd say you manage to acquire the cooking
supplies, the kettle, some fine teas that you can
acquire, and altogether I'd say--
TALIESIN: I have stuff to cook.
MATT: I'd say that would put you back about-- with
the hat? Four gold.
TALIESIN: Oh, man. All right, 155.
MATT: You weren't asking for anything too crazy.
TALIESIN: Nope, that's cool. I'm easy. Now we just
need to find the diamonds.
LAURA: Now we need to find some diamonds.
MATT: All right. So for that? Let's see here.
MARISHA: I typed in the bracers and they showed up
with an image.
LAURA: Whoa!
SAM: How? What?
MARISHA: That's in D&D Beyond. (singing) D&D
Beyond.
SAM: (singing) Be my girl tonight, D&D Beyond.
LIAM: They even had my hand-me-down Periapt of
Wound Closure.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LAURA: Both of us, or just me?
MATT: Well, if you're both looking for it, you can
aid or help. So, advantage on that.
LAURA: Advantage!
SAM: This is for diamonds? Ooh.
LAURA: (singing) Investigation. 11. Sorry.
MATT: 11. Asking around, most folks-- Well,
diamonds as a rough, raw material is hard to find.
Usually, they're already embedded in jewelry and
most jewelers are out there. Eventually, somebody
points you to a place, like, (dismissively) "If
anyone will have it, it's probably over at Suvo's Secrets."
LAURA and SAM: Suvo's Secrets?
MATT: Suvo's Secrets. And they point you over to
this large, gray shop tent that has an ominous
feel when you look at it. As bright a day as it
is, it's like the Addams Family house in the
Pentamarket. It looks... it looks unwelcome.
TRAVIS: On Halloween, all the kids are outside?
MATT: Yeah, it's a very drab, very coarse material
that the tent is made out of. Outside, it looks
like the ropes that are affixing it down are
rotted a bit, and you can see that some of the
ropes are starting to pull and tear on the edges.
It looks closed. Except for there's-- where the
flaps come together in the middle. It doesn't look
like anything that you should buy from.
LAURA: Let's go in there.
TALIESIN: I'm very excited. It looks great!
MATT: All right. As you enter Suvo's Secrets--
(laughing) You're hitting the tent front? You're
not walking in?
LAURA: No, we're seeing if it's open.
MATT: Yeah, it's open. It's an entrance. You go
inside and the interior-- It's maybe 20 feet by 20
feet, it's not a very large interior space. And it
looks like there are some tables set up on the far
ends, perimeter to the outside of it. And on the
back, there is a very, very large custom rocking
chair that is just like, (creaking). And sitting
in it, you see an older, very intense-looking
female dragonborn, bronze-scaled, but in the age
they're starting to turn a bit green at the edges,
kind of patinaed a little. She sits there in the
rocking chair, hands kind of crossed on the chest,
just rocking and looking at you as you enter.
TALIESIN: It's a nice place you got here.
MATT: "Thank you very much. Welcome to Suvo's
Secrets."
LAURA: Are you Suvo?
MATT: "Yes. Who are you?"
LAURA: I am Jester.
MATT: "Jester. What are you looking for that I
might be helping you with?"
TALIESIN and LAURA: Secrets.
LAURA: And diamonds, probably.
TALIESIN: Oh, and what else? It was diamonds.
Diamonds and secrets. Secret diamonds.
MATT: She leans forward and her hands hit the
front of her knees. Leaning back, she looks very
small, but once she steps into the little bit of
light that's coming through the front of the tent,
Suvo's a fairly large dragonborn, and, even just
leaning forward sitting, is almost as tall as you
are, Jester.
LAURA: Whoa!
MATT: "Diamonds, you say?"
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: "How many diamonds are you looking for?"
LAURA: How many do you have?
MATT: "Maybe 12."
TALIESIN: That's a lot of diamonds.
LAURA: That sounds like a lot of diamonds. Are
they big diamonds or little diamonds? I don't know.
MATT: She reaches back and there's this large-- It
looks just like a sack. Just a general sack and
she reaches and grabs the edge and scoots it over
without breaking eye contact. It scrapes across
the ground and you hear things clattering around
inside, like she's carrying a large pouch of
various pots and pans. She reaches in, still
looking at you. "One."
LAURA: Oh, Caleb should be here right now!
MATT: "Two." And eventually counts out 12
varying-sized diamonds. They all look-- Some are
cut, it looks like one of them is a little rough,
and just hasn't been cut by a jeweler yet. But,
sure enough, they're--
LAURA: We can tell they're really diamonds?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Your Laura is showing.
LAURA: Well, just making sure she's not ripping us
off.
TALIESIN: I'll join you in this perception check.
LAURA: Okay. Ooh, that's good. Perception. 20.
TALIESIN: 14.
LAURA: I've seen a lot of diamonds in my day.
MATT: You have. You've seen some fine jewelry,
especially from your mother's chests.
TRAVIS: Yeah, her chests. Sorry.
LAURA: There's lots of diamonds right in here.
MATT: (laughing) It's the tassels.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: So many carats! So many carats!
MATT: (whoosh, whoosh, whoosh) It's sharp and
dangerous.
TALIESIN: Ow! Ow! Ow!
LIAM: (singing) Best lay ever.
TALIESIN: Ahh! Ahh! I'm cut, I'm cut!
(laughter)
SAM: Children. We're all children.
MATT: Yeah, we are.
LIAM: That's why we're here.
MATT: Exactly!
LIAM: This is serious.
MATT: These are all legitimate diamonds with
varying degrees of worth. But looking at the
batch, there's probably about 700-- We'll say,
rounded off, about-- Roughly 750 gold worth of
diamonds of the group, that she set.
TALIESIN: 600. About 600 will do both of us.
LAURA: Yeah, so we'll buy all but, you know,
these two little ones. Because those probably add
up to about 150.
MATT: "That is all right. They will still be here
when you come back."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Drops them into the satchel, pushes it away.
(creaking, thumping)
LAURA: I'll do 300 and you do 300?
TALIESIN: Yeah, that works for me.
MATT: So you each have 300 gold worth of diamonds on
you.
LAURA: Okie dokie. Oh! Is there anything else in
here? Because this seems like a really cool shop.
Is there anything else that I want?
MATT: "There are many things."
SAM: (whispering) Secrets!
MATT: Grabs and pulls the sack back over.
LAURA: Does she just have the sack? The one bag in
the shop?
MATT: Yeah. The tables are all empty.
LAURA: (laughing) That's so cool!
MATT: There is just a sack where she keeps all of
the goods.
TALIESIN: All of her secrets! Oh, I get it now!
That's great!
MATT: Reaches in and pulls out what looks to be a
mummified creature's hand. You can't-- It's not
quite humanoid, it's got fur on it. Sets it down.
"This is a treated owlbear matron hand."
TALIESIN: I don't know what that is, but that's
really cool.
LAURA: Wow!
MATT: "25 gold. It's a good keepsake."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Reaches in, pulls out a big batch of garlic.
Just a big old batch of garlic in a small netted
sack. She goes, "Garlic. Good for cooking and also
for keeping away... vampyr!"
(laughter)
LAURA: You know what we could do? Get the garlic,
sprinkle the Dust of Deliciousness on the garlic,
and feed it to the vampyr!
TALIESIN: Then they'd be in pain and very
susceptible to--
MATT: Make a religion check, Jester.
LAURA: Would I know this stuff? A natural one!
MATT: This plan sounds perfectly sound.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I want to see what else is in the sack
before-- We shouldn't negotiate until we know
everything.
LAURA: Yeah, this is true.
MATT: So, for the sake of brevity--
TALIESIN: For the sake of brevity.
MATT: It's a whole slew of strange knickknacks--
LAURA: And we sit there while she pulls out the
entire bag.
MATT: Yeah, it takes the better part of 30 or 40
minutes or so. There's an iron mask. Where the
mouth should be, it's just these two metal tusks
that stick out, almost like a cast-iron orc mask.
MARISHA: (whispering) Russell Crowe!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Are you not entertained!?
MATT: Oh my god. There are-- There's half of a
chess set carved from jade. When I say half, I
mean not like one side or the other: half of each
side, so it's completely useless. There is a
single vial that has a familiar, red, medicinal
liquid in it. It looks like there is a healing
potion, should you be so inclined to purchase it.
And the rest of it is just absolute junk.
TALIESIN: I'll take the garlic.
MATT: "Very well. Two gold." Which is really
expensive for fucking garlic.
TALIESIN: I'm thinking, that's-- One gold.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
SAM: One gold?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
SAM: Hardcore negotiations.
TALIESIN: Ah, 20.
MATT: "It is yours."
SAM: (whispering) Secrets!
MARISHA: That's still overpriced for garlic.
MATT: It's so overpriced for garlic.
LAURA: How much is the healing potion?
TALIESIN: It's good garlic. Never can pay too--
Yeah, it's really nice garlic.
LIAM: Heirloom. Artisinal.
MATT: It is actually pretty artisanal garlic.
TALIESIN: Artisanal garlic.
TRAVIS: It came out of the ground.
MATT: All right, so yeah. This would be a greater
healing potion.
SAM: Ooh!
LAURA: Oh, that's expensive.
TRAVIS: Maybe not from her.
TALIESIN: Ask.
MARISHA: She just charged two gold for garlic.
MATT: No. For this, she's like, "This will run 250
gold pieces. But it will keep you from dying in
"places where you will probably most likely be
dying."
LAURA: Wow. I would take it, but I don't have
enough gold.
MATT: Pulls it back and puts it back in the
satchel. "Then you will not have it!"
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to hold out the garlic one
more time. Just checking. Seems legit.
MATT: (laughing) She seems to nod like, "Well
done."
LAURA: Oh, I did that wrong.
SAM: Yes, you did.
LAURA: It was because I was listening to what he
was saying. I was distracted. There we go. Okay.
MATT: "No mask?"
LAURA: How much for the mask?
TALIESIN: You don't know where that's been.
LAURA: I know.
MATT: Five gold.
LAURA: Ah. Ooh. Three gold!
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
LAURA: No! Er, seven!
MATT: Five gold.
LAURA: Deal.
MATT: "Be careful. They say the curse lasts for
whoever-- I don't remember the rest of it. It's
"just a mask, there's no enchantment. It's just a
very scary mask. But congratulations, it's yours."
TRAVIS: Just bailed.
(laughter)
MARISHA: It's all bullshit.
MATT: It's all bullshit. Well, most of it's
bullshit from this individual.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "Very well. Is that the end of it?"
LAURA: I think so.
TALIESIN: I feel very satisfied with this entire
expedition.
MATT: "Be safe and come back again. I am very
interested to sell to you what else might come my way."
LAURA: Thank you, Suvos.
LIAM: (whispering) Shallots! Chives!
MATT: You step out. The bright light of the midday
sun-- The clouds of the previous storm have parted
a bit and there's actually bright light and your
eyes have to adjust. You're like, "Aah, Ah! Ah."
TALIESIN: I'm perfectly satisfied with my shopping
experience.
LAURA: I'm done with my shopping. All of my money
is gone.
MATT: All right. Who else? We've done a few things
with you guys. We've done Nott's stuff. Fjord,
anything you want to do?
TRAVIS: Sure. Yeah. The previous events have
rocked Fjord a little bit. Are there any bars or
taverns in Zadash that may house frequent sailors
or people of trade, merchants?
MATT: Sailors, not so much. The Empire is
landlocked aside from the very far north, and
those waters are in the frigid depths. It's a lot
of ice floes and treacherous water up there. So
there is very little passage up north. The
Menagerie Coast, as you know, is where all of the
port towns are, and that's the relationship
between the Empire and The Menagerie Coast. That
agreement is based on the fact that, essentially,
the Menagerie Coast holds all the long-term
imports and exports in the palm of their hand.
TRAVIS: I know that I've made that trip. How far
is it from Zadash back to the northernmost part of
the Menagerie Coast?
MATT: That would be Nicodranas. Nicodranas from
Zadash, it's a little over a week to get there,
I'd say.
TRAVIS: (sighs) I think Fjord's going to take a
steed and start heading south by himself.
MARISHA: Oh shit.
SAM: What? He's going on walkabout?
MARISHA: He's going on a walkabout.
TRAVIS: While he heads south, I'd like to adopt
various disguises as I stop in inns, taverns,
places of trade, and carefully hear if anyone is
mentioning the name "Sabian," if people are
talking about ships, and try and casually make my
way further south, knowing that I have an amount
of time to get back north. I'd like to try to make
my way down and see what I can hear and find out.
MATT: Okay. Make three successive investigation
checks for me, please.
TRAVIS: Okay. 12, nine, and a six.
MATT: You make it as far south as Trostenwald
before the frustration wells up inside you. It's
been a series of dead ends. You've asked around
and listened, and anyone who would've crossed
paths with some of the shipping lanes that you're
familiar with and that Sabian was familiar with,
none of them are passing this far north. You
assume that to continue this, you would have to go
to the Menagerie Coast, and that would involve a
thorough passage through Nicodranas and the
various wharf taverns and seeing what old
connections you might be able to dredge up in that
time, but that's going to take you a little
while.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I think I'll make it to the end of
that week and start to make my way back.
MATT: By the end of the week, you'll get not quite
to Nicodranas. If you want to, you can traverse
the Wuyun Gorge, pass through the Wuyun Gates, and
head into the Menagerie Coast. You will be alone,
and it isn't a not-dangerous road. So just be
aware. There are some possibilities.
TRAVIS: No, I know now that the strength is in the
numbers of the group. I'll stop and head back.
MATT: You sure?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. After this unfortunately not-fruitful
travel south in seeking out any possible word of
Sabian, you shift your attention back and decide
to rally with your allies. Perhaps that's the
direction you want to go in the future. Okay, what
else would you like to do?
TRAVIS: That's about it.
MATT: Okay. Very well. Anybody else?
LIAM: Yeah, if that invitation was good and I have
about, as she said, the next day, Caleb's going to
pull an all-nighter. I'm going to spend time in a
hotel room, an inn, and take the lucky rock and
I'm going to fill it with transmutative power and
make a Transmuter's Stone out of it, and for now
we will have it let me see in the dark. For now. I
would also transcribe every spell that was in the
book and every scroll that I have found so that I
use up all the paper that I have purchased. Have
every spell. And Frumpkin is back. As a cat.
MATT: All righty. Cat Frumpkin has returned.
LIAM: There is only one Frumpkin. I stayed up all
night doing all of those things because they're
very time-intensive and would have went to find
Beauregard, very tired and ready to go, to stay at
the library as long as I am able. She said a
number of days, and when those days are up, the
thing that I would do is spend as much time that
is left with the-- I would borrow Jester's
haversack, if she would let me, and spend time
with the dodecahedron.
MATT: Okay. We'll get to that. First, you guys
make your way to the archive and you enter there,
and the following morning Caleb is very
tired-looking, but also hard to tell.
MARISHA: 'Sup, man! You ready for this monk
retreat? Monk retreat!
LIAM: I want to learn all of the martial arts.
MARISHA: Let's go.
MATT: Making your way into the archive, it's
fairly bustling in comparison to what you know.
It's either dead or there's a handful of people
going through it. Today it's a handful of people
going through. You're like, "Oh wow, there's four
people in here researching right now."
MARISHA: No one ever cares about books this much.
It's weird.
MATT: Within a short time-- what are you looking
to do, Beauregard?
MARISHA: I ask around and see if Dairon is there.
MATT: One of the monks goes, "Let me go inquire.
I'll be right back," and wanders up the stairs.
You see them descend the stairs with another
figure. Gray robes with blue lining, hood pulled
back, and there you see Zeenoth.
MARISHA: Oh.
MATT: He steps down and goes, "Beauregard. I
wasn't aware you had returned."
MARISHA: Hi.
MATT: "Hi. Dairon, unfortunately, is still out on
the front lines."
MARISHA: What?
MATT: "Well, she's been sent to assess political
threats beyond the eastern border. Been gone for
"about 30 days and is said to return in the next 45
before we send anyone after her. But I'm sure
"she's fine."
MARISHA: She said she'd be back within a month,
that she was just checking out the front lines at
Bladegarden.
MATT: "Well, things change when they're at that
moment of conflict."
MARISHA: You sent her behind enemy lines?
MATT: "No. She progressed behind enemy lines and
then wrote to us that she was staying for an
"extended period. She's impetuous. I think you may
know something about that. Anyway, I'm sorry
"Dairon is not here. What are you inquiring
about?"
MARISHA: Just hoping to check in with her and
catch up on some coaching.
MATT: "Ah. Well, there is Tubo. Tubo is quite an
accomplished monk of the Cobalt Soul and might be
"able to help you, whereas Dairon could not."
MARISHA: Do I know Tubo?
MATT: You've seen Tubo. You've not directly
interacted, because Tubo, much like Dairon, works
on a higher level. You hadn't quite garnished the
attention beyond just being "that brat" for a
while. Tubo is this very dark-skinned halfling
with very short, widow's peak-type hair, and this
very calm smile about him. Very well-respected,
but you haven't really seen him move or do
anything other than walking through the archive
and be present.
MARISHA: Is he an expositor?
MATT: You don't know.
MARISHA: Hmm. Yeah, all right.
MATT: "All right. I shall return. Good seeing you
again."
MARISHA: Yeah, you too.
MATT: Zeenoth's patient smile fades as he turns.
Within a short time, you see coming from down the
same staircase, Tubo, his arms folded in front of
him as he descends and turns toward you. "So you
"are Beauregard, correct?"
MARISHA: That's me.
MATT: "And you're looking for training while your
expositor is away, correct?"
MARISHA: Yeah, I mean--
MATT: "Follow me."
MARISHA: Okay. Also, I got this guy with me. Can
he get a room and a library pass?
MATT: Zeenoth, who's a little bit behind, goes,
"I'll accompany him in his reading, if that's all right?"
MARISHA: Zeenoth, Caleb. Caleb, Zeenoth.
MATT: "We've met, in Trostenwald."
LIAM: Hallo.
MATT: "Hello. Please, lead the way to where you'd
wish to read."
LIAM: Oh, thank you. Thank you.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All right. Tubo brings you to a chamber you
haven't been in in a while, which is the formal
training grounds beneath the archive. There is a
set of double doors in the far end that blend in
mostly with the dark wood that a lot of the bookcases
are crafted out of. It leads you down a set of
stairs into what is essentially a training pit
with very heavily packed sand and dirt, and there
are a number of wooden poles that emerge from
beneath that have all sorts of skewed extensions.
This is where a lot of forms are practiced and a
lot of defensive maneuvers are utilized. You were
brought through in this area for training in waves
time and again, but it's been a while since you've
been down here, since you've been abroad, and
there's no other people there training currently.
Tubo brings you down. "Very well. Show me what
you've got." For the sake of brevity--
SAM: You die.
MATT: Yes. Roll up a new character. Tubo splatters
you across the wall. You spar for a bit, showing
him the limits of your capabilities, and he's
deftly, with a smile on his face, dodging,
parrying. You get a few good hits in and he backs
away. "Very good," and then begins to overwhelm
you with his assault, but never enough to inflict
pain, just enough to throw you off your guard
until a moment he turns around and puts his hands
up into a cross once more and goes, "Four days. I
"need four days with you."
MARISHA: Okay. And then what happens?
MATT: "And then your training for now is
complete."
MARISHA: Yeah, all right.
MATT: "Day one begins. Time to read."
MARISHA: What?!
MATT: He takes you back upstairs and begins to
collect books and throw them into a pile and sits
you down.
MARISHA: I look at Caleb across the library.
MATT: You begin reading and it's getting
frustrated, but as you're reading, Tubo begins to
lean in and say, "As you're reading, think
carefully about what you're trying to find. What
"you're trying to learn."
MARISHA: Okay, what am I trying to learn?
MATT: What are you looking to research?
MARISHA: Is there any type of history on families
of Wildemount, or any type of underground trade
going on? Family trees? Connections?
MATT: For the portion of this day, Tubo begins to
instruct you on how to not just read and research,
but in focusing your spiritual energy on the
specific things you're searching, you begin to
find quick ways to Johnny 5 through tomes to find
what you're looking for. With this comes your
ability to spend a ki point to gain advantage on
an investigation check.
MARISHA: Dope.
MATT: Day two comes around and he brings you down
to the subterranean chamber for more training.
This time, he begins to show you how to use that
same internal, spiritual energy or ki at the
moment of impact to give off this very localized
wave of spiritual energy. He begins to tell you
how, "This can break through defenses of things
that are meant to not be touched with a mortal
"hand. This is intended as a way to bypass
sometimes the mundane protections." Through this
training, he teaches you how use your empowered
strikes, where now your physical fists and attacks
as a monk are considered magical.
MARISHA: Ghost puncher.
MATT: Yes, you can now punch ghosts.
MARISHA: Sick.
MATT: Day three, he brings you down to the chamber
with a chair, and says, "Sit."
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: "Tell me. Tell me a secret."
MARISHA: Is this Truth or Dare?
MATT: "Kind of. Do you want to tell me a secret?"
MARISHA: Is there a dare option?
MATT: "No."
MARISHA: Then it's not Truth or Dare. You know
Truth or Dare, right?
MATT: He looks frustrated, turns around, does a
little loop, comes back, and as you're about to
speak up again, he does a series of quick hits
that hurt a little, but that catch you right in
the clavicle, the side of throat, and then right
under the chin. As you pull back, make a saving
throw for me, please. This would be a charisma
saving throw, I believe.
MARISHA: 12. Not good.
MATT: He begins to ask you questions about your
youth and your family history-- things you don't
normally talk about with anybody. Outside of
stopping yourself from speaking at all, you're on
the verge of constantly giving up the information.
He teaches you, "This is a technique that allows
"you to pull the truth from those that would not be
so forthcoming. It is situationally very useful,
"and I will show this to you." And so he teaches
you the Extort Truth ability. On the fourth and final
day, he leads you down and begins to show you how
to use your ki capabilities, your spiritual
energy, to blend it with moments of adrenaline
bursts to give yourself a moment of reactionary
time where previously you would have expended any
capability of preparing yourself for an assault.
As he puts you through hours of this rigorous
training, he goes, "Very well. The time to show
"what you can do has come." Claps. You watch as two
other monks come down. (laughs) But they have bows
and arrows, and they have a third one they hand to
him. They all nock the arrows and aim them right
at you.
SAM: Tubo versus Beau with bows!
(laughter)
LIAM: Bo-bo-bo-bo-bo-bo-bo.
MARISHA: That's deeply accurate.
MATT: Yeah. Tubo goes, "Fire." All three arrows
come toward you. That's a 19 to hit.
MARISHA: 19 just hits.
MATT: Okay. That's another 19, actually. And that
is a 23. So all three hit you.
TRAVIS: Jesus. Fuck your bracers.
MARISHA: (groaning)
TRAVIS: I got new shit! (impacts)
MARISHA: I'm Wonder Woman! I'm not Wonder Woman.
MATT: The first arrow is ten points of damage.
MARISHA: Can I do the thing?
MATT: Yes, you can.
MARISHA: Spend a ki point. How many points of
damage?
MATT: Ten.
MARISHA: Ten? No points of damage.
MATT: You catch one arrow.
MARISHA: Wait, I'm level six now, right?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: One point of damage. I lied.
MATT: Okay. You take one point of damage. You just
barely catch it. It manages to nick the side of
your shoulder.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: The two other arrows are coming at you as
well.
MARISHA: I can only do this thing once though,
right? Or I can keep spending ki points to do
that, right? I'll do it one more time.
MATT: Okay, you can do that now, if you have
another reaction.
MARISHA: That's right, which I do.
TALIESIN: You have multiple reactions?
MARISHA: I do now.
SAM: What?!
LAURA: Everybody, be a monk.
TALIESIN: What?!
MARISHA: If I spend a ki point. One, two.
MATT: You don't have to spend a ki point to reduce
the damage. You spend a ki point to throw it back.
MARISHA: So I will spend an extra reaction, then,
to catch the other one.
MATT: You spend the same ki point. Roll for damage
reduction on the next one. That's 12 points of
damage.
MARISHA: I rolled 11, so another one point of
MATT: You catch both arrows. The third one is
coming towards you.
MARISHA: And one more.
MATT: Spend another ki point. That's two ki points
now. You get to roll to reduce the third one.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: Yeah, that one does no damage. You catch one
arrow out of the air. It just barely nicks your
shoulder. The other one you catch just as it
scrapes past the side of your arm. The third one
you catch in the middle of the air with no impact.
In the blink of an eye, you've deflected all three
arrows shot at the same time.
MARISHA: I turn to Tubo and I go: Did you see
that?!
MATT: "I did. And with that, your training is
complete."
MARISHA: Oh. I don't get to kill those guys?
MATT: "No!" He hands the shortbow to the other one
and they all head back upstairs.
MARISHA: Sorry, I'm sure you're really lovely
people.
MATT: "Impressive. Dairon was not wrong about
you."
MARISHA: Wait, what has-- Dairon's been talking
about me? What has she been saying?
MATT: "That you are an apt pupil. Now, our time is
done. I have things to do. And four days with you
"has been more than enough."
MARISHA: Yeah. I get that a lot.
MATT: He makes his way back up and escorts you out
of the training chamber.
SAM: Guys, hasn't the last four days been amazing?
LAURA: Yes, really peaceful, actually.
MARISHA: I go find Caleb and I go: Let's go!
LAURA: Four days later.
MATT: So during this time, Caleb?
LIAM: If I had four days to peruse at will, I
would have spent the first day trying to research
anything I could find about Xhorhas, the
Xhorasians' mentions of beacons, of them living
many lives, their religion, if possible.
MATT: Make an investigation check with advantage
to find all the right information.
LIAM: Investigation? That is 19.
MATT: So, on that specific thing, you learn about
the Kryn Dynasty, which is the Xhorhasian society
that exists in the ruins of Ghor Dranas. You know
that most of them were drow, dark elf, from what
you've heard and the ones you've interacted with.
Now, the drow were brethren alongside all elves in
the past history until their minds were corrupted
and swayed by the terrible silver tongue of Lolth
the Spider Queen, one of the Betrayer Gods. Under
her will, they became deceptive, cruel, and
violent. When the Betrayer Gods were defeated and
banished during the Calamity, and the Divergence
that separated the mortal realm from the gods that
once threatened to destroy it entirely, the drow
returned to their subterranean cities to rebuild
their power far from the burning light of day.
Much of the recent studies into current drow
society across Exandria speak of growing paranoia
and madness that's seeping in with the believed
influence of Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion.
Whether it be by proximity of remnants of his
power deep beneath the surface that have grown
close to these societies, but there is whispers
and research that say that some of these dark elf
societies are being driven slowly mad by this
influence. Strangely, what studies you've been
able to find that talk about penetrating the Kryn
Dynasty's intense boundaries-- I fucking looked at
you immediately, Laura, because I knew where it
was going.
LAURA: You see? You know it, too. That means you
looked at me because you knew.
MATT: Of course. As soon as I read the word I was
like-- Without fail.
LIAM: Pray to the great god titty.
MATT: We missed you. But for those who were able
to move past the boundaries to research more of
what little is known of the Kryn Dynasty, there is
little in iconography under Lolth or Tharizdun.
And what remains of that is ancient and crumbling
and largely ignored by the society.
LIAM: Do I find any mention of these beacons-- he
mentioned beacons, plural-- and reincarnation or
multiple lives?
MATT: There's nothing about beacons, nothing about
reincarnation. However, it does speak of the
dynasty worshiping something other, something that
is new and dangerous as far as the Cobalt Soul is
concerned, with what little research they have.
They refer to it as "The Luxon" and seek to bring
all under its burning banner. They've rallied to
the surface of Ghor Dranas, casting the skies in
eternal midnight that spreads with their dominion.
They've begun taking the ravenous hordes of
beast-men and terrors of the Xhorhasian wastes,
and indoctrinate them under this new false god.
You also learn that a number of people, mostly
children of adolescent age, have been found
abducted in the night by the Kryn on occasion,
though the number has steeply grown this past
generation, years after the first open conflicts
with the Kryn began. The last thing you discover
is the leader of the dynasty is known as Empress
Leylas Kryn. She is called an "umavi" by them,
though the word's meaning is unknown by current
research. Accounts of the Empress speak of her as
a powerful and dangerous warrior on the
battlefield. And well over 600 years old or more,
as records date back that far since she arrived in
local history. That's what you've discovered about
the Kryn Dynasty and Xhorhas.
LIAM: I spend a day reading about that. I will
spend every remaining day reading about-- I was
rushed the first time I came here, so I'm going to
spend every day left reading about the weave of
time and any mortals' attempts to control it.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: The weave of time.
TRAVIS: That's some restricted reading bullshit.
LIAM: 22.
MATT: The things you discover, from what's
available to you in the archive: time is a
constant, the motion moving forward unyielding.
Some powerful arcane influences can accelerate or
slow the rate at which time passes locally, even
stop it. There are some stories from the Age of
Arcanum that speak of the greatest of sages
experimenting with reversing the forward momentum
of time, and supposedly with some success. But the
process apparently was so taxing and the energies
required so extensive that it nearly killed those
who passed through this natural flow. That's as
much as you can pick up on the specific research
involving that shift of time. They're more
footnotes and like a, "We don't mess with that
because those who tried have mostly been
"disintegrated or destroyed in the process."
LIAM: Nearly killed. Does it talk about any of the
people who were nearly killed but weren't?
MATT: Yes, but they existed close to 1500 years
ago.
LIAM: No record of their names?
MATT: The names that were in there are none that
correlate to anything you'd recognize.
LIAM: I would still have spent the entire three
days reading about that.
MATT: I'll send you those notes later. You do pick
up, because of your very high roll, there are
apparently some newer arcane experiments regarding
time and reality being fielded within the Soltryce
Academy in Rexxentrum. A newer magical energy
seems to have been discovered, or rediscovered,
that can seemingly adjust such properties with
ease. It's being referred to as "Dunamis."
LIAM: Dunamis.
MATT: But other than that, there's very little
information because all that seems to be
proprietary within the Academy.
LIAM: Ja, good, cool. Super cool. Danke. Then
I'm all done with all my shit.
TRAVIS: I forgot, I should've looked at my list. I
had one or two other little things.
MATT: Okay, Fjord, what else would you like to
do?
SAM: You didn't want to just walk for six days and
walk back for six days?
TRAVIS: I was like, I feel like I came up-- Oh,
there's more shit.
MATT: I was like, are you sure that's all you want
to do?
TRAVIS: Yeah. We can just say on the way back from
those visits, at night when I made camp, I want to
summon the falchion and spend more time with it.
Examine it, specifically the eye, if it has that
sort of-- in the letter, it looked like there was
a gash into the sphere itself. Does it represent
that, is it smooth? Does it move?
MATT: The eye, where it sits in the hilt-- and it
only sits on one side, it's not both sides that
contain the eye, because there aren't two pupils.
There is a singular eye that is embedded in it,
that is looking out what would essentially be
towards the left.
TRAVIS: Is it near the crossguard, or is it near
the pommel?
MATT: No, it's near the crossguard, in the center
of the hilt. When you look at it, it doesn't seem
to move or shift or pay any attention. Practicing
the next few days and trying some things out, you
focus some of your arcane gifts towards an object,
casting Witch Bolt towards a nearby rock or low,
dried, and forgotten trunk of a tree. At the
moment the incantation begins, the eye shifts to
look towards the target of the spell. The spell
explodes and you look back at the hilt, and it's
already reverted back to where it was before.
TRAVIS: Super fast.
MATT: But it did seem to react to when the spell
was cast.
TRAVIS: Creepy. What the hell does that mean?
Okay. When I get back, could I make my way to The
Gentleman for just a quick convo?
MATT: Sure, all right. So you make your way to The
Evening Nip. By the time you've returned, it's
been the better part of the two-week period of
time, and you guys are also generally worried the
fact that Fjord just vanished during this time
period.
LAURA: He left while we were shopping.
MATT: Big surprise.
TALIESIN: Travis is shouting.
TRAVIS: You guys are going to shop, ah!
MATT: (poof sound)
TRAVIS: What was it?
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Spooky exit.
MATT: You make your way to the subterranean
basement of The Evening Nip. The Gentleman is not
currently present, but upon asking around, and you
wait for about 20 minutes or so, he does return
from the storage room to the side where you had
previously been led down and through the
Underworks. As he comes in, he sees you and sits
on the other side of the table, throwing his leg
over one side and sitting at a very comfortable
and casual way across from you. "Fjord, I'm being
"told that you're looking for me."
TRAVIS: Yes, I appreciate you making some time for
me this evening. Turns out we might be traveling a
little bit pretty soon. We're going to be making
our way towards the Wayfarer's Cove. Your
knowledge of areas outside of Zadash seems so
extensive, what with the errands you sent us on. I
was wondering, could you share with me any
knowledge you might have about criminal
underbellies, any competitors you might have in
business that's not of an official nature in
cities, particularly around Nicodranas, Port
Damali, the Menagerie Coast. Is your reach that far?
MATT: "I have some reaches in places, yes. That's
quite a scope you're requesting. I would say it's
"a good bet that most criminal elements you would
encounter there are not at my network, except for
"a handful. It might be more useful to you to know
the ones to trust."
TRAVIS: That's where I was going with that.
MATT: "Okay. Port Damali, you say?"
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's where I'm from.
MATT: "Really?"
TRAVIS: Indeed.
MATT: "The jewel of the coast. I've been a number
of times, though it's been years since I've been
"able to leave my work here alone. So if you're
looking to expand your portfolio beyond Zadash,
"that is commendable. The one contact I could
recommend in Port Damali would be Father Dwandath Pierce."
TRAVIS: Father Dwandath Pierce?
MATT: "Dwarven fellow. Scraggly in the face.
Dresses well. He helms the Pearl Shrine, a house
"of worship to Avandra, the Changebringer. Tell him
that you bring many gifts."
TRAVIS: I bring many gifts.
MATT: "Should you not work with Father Pierce and
his network, be careful. You could easily find
"yourself on an opposing side to my business, and I
do not take kindly to betrayal."
TRAVIS: Indeed, I wouldn't dare. After all, you do
have a little way of keeping track of where we are
and what we do.
MATT: "That I do."
TRAVIS: I appreciate your help in this matter.
Hopefully we can be of some service to you down there.
MATT: "If something comes to mind, I'll send it
your way."
TRAVIS: Please do.
MATT: "And if anything comes to mind that would be
of interest to my ears, business or otherwise,
"please keep me informed."
TRAVIS: You can be assured that I will. Thank you
for your time, I'll leave you now.
MATT: "Of course." Then he goes off to get a drink
at the bar. As you turn around, right there at the
steps is Cree, the dark-furred tabaxi. She
approaches and goes, "I'm sorry to bother you, I
"noticed you descend here. I have heard since your
last arrival that there were losses in your journey."
TRAVIS: (stuttering) Hm?
MATT: "I have had a number of uncomfortable dreams
in the week, and... I cannot sense Lucien."
TRAVIS: Tell me about these dreams.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
TRAVIS: Oh god. Oh, that's good. 18.
MATT: "They are cold and sad. I just see him
alone, and I've tried to focus. He is not nearby.
"I have a very hollow feeling about this."
TRAVIS: (whispering) God, why was I gone for six
weeks? Okay. (normal volume) Yes, unfortunately
your dreams may have some merit. I myself was
missing for most of our journey, and it seems,
unfortunately, that Lucien befell a terrible
fate.
MATT: "That was what I was fearing."
TRAVIS: I'm sorry to be the one to let you know.
If I was there I could give you more detail, but I
found out much in the same way you are.
MATT: "That is all right. Thank you for your
honesty. It is hard for him to be gone for so
"long, then come back, and so swiftly go again.
Maybe I had put too much faith."
TRAVIS: You said he left before and then came
back. If you don't mind my asking, the last time
that he left, do you remember the circumstances of
his departure?
MATT: "We of the Task Takers, we were undergoing a
ritual that he had orchestrated with an ally of
"his, a woman of magical renown. He said that this
was something that was meant to lead us to this
"city he promised, a place where we could learn of
a great many powers and secrets. We believed him.
"He was very charismatic in his cruelty at times.
But he did not survive."
TRAVIS: And then you saw him here for the first
time in quite a while, yes?
MATT: Two years.
TRAVIS: Two years? Two years. Are you-- and
forgive me if this is too personal-- are you
expecting to see him again?
MATT: I wasn't expecting to see him this last
time. I feel like whatever grace brought him back
to us, maybe it was your carelessness that took
him from us again.
TRAVIS: Indeed, maybe it was. You have my
apologies and my condolences.
MATT: It is all right. I have started a new life
here, and it has been serving me well.
TRAVIS: I hate to leave you with such sour news,
but I must be going.
MATT: Such are these days. Thank you for your
candor. She turns around and walks away.
TRAVIS: Fuck. Then I'll head back to The Leaky
Tap.
MATT: Okay. You guys have all gathered up at The
Leaky Tap?
SAM: Everyone's done their stuff.
TALIESIN: No, I have not done mine.
MATT: All right, what do you want to do?
TALIESIN: Mine's very simple. I'm going to spend a
little time every day-- I'm going to find the
nicest park in town. I'm going to spend every day
and I'm going to meditate and try and get some
guidance. I'm trying to have another epiphany
about what happens next. I'm going to sit quietly
and meditate every day somewhere green, or
whatever passes for it in this city.
MATT: Roll a wisdom check for me.
TALIESIN: No. That was a one.
MATT: Okay. You've spent so much of your life in
the tranquility of the cold and quiet
Savalierwood, and even in the most nature-based
portion of the city of Zadash, the general din and
chaos of the city is too distracting. You're
unable to reach that meditative state where you're
able to feel connected with nature and with the
Wildmother, so Melora's guidance does not come to
you. You have to continue to throw your lot in
with these strange folks that dragged you out of
your home.
TALIESIN: That's fair. I guess the only-- no,
that's right, we're done. I think we got
everything.
SAM: Yeah, everyone's done their thing.
LAURA: No! I am not done.
MATT: All right.
LAURA: Well, because I want to make the Traveler
like me again, because obviously he doesn't and
that's why he didn't come save me. I'm going to
use these two weeks to scout out all of the
temples to the other gods and really see the guard
schedules and the priest schedules and try to
sneak in. I'll probably enlist the help of Nott
here.
SAM: I'll help you.
LAURA: Because you're good at sneaking.
SAM: Sure.
TALIESIN: Well, we do have something we can--
LAURA: This is true.
TALIESIN: We got you something.
LAURA: Before we do this, this will be extra
helpful for you.
SAM: What is it? I don't like this. Is it
something-- is it made of dead people?
LAURA: Just check it out.
TALIESIN: Made of paper.
SAM: It's so nicely wrapped. It's so tiny.
LAURA: Well, imagine it's a lot bigger than that.
SAM: It's tiny, it's just a small cube. Oh, look.
It says, "To the bravest rouge we've ever met.
"From your friendly--"
LAURA: It does say rouge, doesn't it?
SAM: No, it says rogue, I'm fucking with you. "From
your friendly neighborhood healers." You guys can
heal? It's a cloak! Wow! It looks so cool and
fancy!
LAURA: Put it on. I bet it changes size when you
put it on, because most magical things do.
SAM: I will put it on and spend some time with
it.
MATT: Okay. You're able to attune to it and gain
the benefits of a Cloak of Elvenkind.
LAURA: And then we're going to go and try to sneak
in and really fuck up--
MATT: Well, you'll have to decide which
ones you're going to do.
LAURA: How much time do we have? What?
SAM: How much do I owe you for this?
LAURA: You owe us nothing!
TRAVIS: It's a gift.
LAURA: You have nothing!
SAM: Got tons of money. Way more than I'll ever
spend.
MATT: There is the Raven's Den, which sits near
the Ossuary Gates--
LAURA: I already fucked with that one.
MATT: All righty. There is the Hearth of the
Allhammer, which you've messed with as well a
little bit during the festival. There's the Valley
Archive of the Cobalt Soul. While it is both an
archive, it is also a temple to the Knowing
Mistress. There is the King's Hall, which is the
center of law, and of course that's where the law
master is you've spoken with a couple of times.
That's where you've done your jobs off the
Taskboard.
LAURA: Seems like there's a lot of guards there.
MATT: Yeah, there's a lot of guards there. There's
the Platinum House, which is a temple to the
Platinum Dragon. That also exists in the
Interstead Sprawl. Not too far from Steam's
Respite, which is the bathhouse.
LAURA: Ooh, yeah, let's do that one because it's
close to the bathhouse.
SAM: Which one is that? Which god?
LAURA and MATT: The Platinum Dragon.
SAM: All right, that seems right. What are we
going to do to it?
MATT: There's also in the Signet Wall, which
is the military district, there is The Shrine of
the Dawn, which is to the Dawnfather. It's up to
you.
LAURA: Well, that's just fitting, isn't it? No,
I'm going to do the Platinum Dragon because it's
next to the bathhouse.
MATT: Okay, Platinum House it is.
SAM: We're trying to destroy this place?
LAURA: No.
SAM: Paint it?
LAURA: What does it look like?
MATT: As you approach, this beautiful but small
white building is draped in deep blue tapestries,
while a reflective mirrored sphere sits atop the
roof during the day. I think you've passed by and
seen it before when you were traversing the city.
Are you going at day or nighttime?
LAURA: We're checking out during the day, you
know, like we're visitors.
MATT: Okay. The inside is open archways and floor
spaces. They're made available for worship, but
also used for meditation. There are a few folks in
there that are quietly, eyes closed, taking in the
atmosphere of the interior. There's areas for
reading and there's areas for napping and
sleeping. Of the Bahamut worshiping that goes on
in places you've seen on the Menagerie Coast, this
one is a little more New Age-y than you're used
to. About noonish when you arrive, there is a
sermon beginning, where there is the Herald of the
House, which is a silver-scaled dragonborn in his
older years. He looks very tired and as withered
as a dragonborn can through their silver scales.
He's in the process of giving this very deeply
empowering speech about, "The majesty of Bahamut
"bestows upon us the knowledge and the grace in
which we can be beacons of truth and justice in a
"world that wishes to swallow all with chaos."
LAURA: (snoring)
(laughter)
MATT: But yeah, the midday stakeout appears to go
well. What do you wish to do?
LAURA: How often does he come back?
MATT: He's there most of the day, and in the
evening he appears to go nap somewhere within the
Platinum House.
LAURA: And then he gives his sermon during the
next day and the next day? We scout it out a
couple days in a row to really get the feel for
the guards.
MATT: Okay, make an investigation check.
LAURA: With advantage because Nott's helping me?
MATT: Sure, sure.
LAURA: Oh Jesus H. Macy. Nine. Nein!
MATT: There's a couple entrances, some hallways.
LAURA: Wow.
SAM: What do you want to do?
LAURA: I'm going to take some of the firecrackers
we got from Hupperdook, and I want to set them off
during his sermon. And then I want to-- but I'm
going to Invoke Duplicity, so it looks like I'm
actually still there listening to the sermon. Then
while that's happening-- but I'm also Disguise
Self, so I also want to look like somebody else
while it's happening so nobody can trace it back
to me.
SAM: That sounds complicated.
LAURA: This is really good stuff. And then I want
to run over to-- is there a big statue of the
Platinum Dragon?
MATT: There is in the center, yeah. It's not built
on the floor. It's actually held aloft in the
central domed archway right beneath where that
glowing dome at the top is. At nighttime, as
you've seen it, it emits this faint, white glow
and is this beacon in the middle of the darkened
city, aside from the various bits of torchlight
that hit the streets. Beneath this dome, you see
the large, carved-- looks like a pure platinum,
but it's probably a polished silver-- statue of
the dragon, wings outstretched, looking down over
the chambers and hovers about 15 feet off the
ground, where all the rest of the folks gather for
this sermon and/or sit there to meditate and pray
and worship.
LAURA: This is a really bad time to do this
because there's lots of people around. Can I do
it at night? Is there less people at night? Would
I have learned at least that much?
MATT: Yeah, at night, there are less people.
LAURA: Okay, I come back a second time after
setting up the fireworks. Now the next time--
SAM: We're here again?
LAURA: We have to do it right. This time I'm
coming prepared with my paints and a mustache.
TRAVIS: Your Anarchist's Cookbook.
LAURA: My Anarchist's Cookbook, a couple brochures
for the Traveler, and I steal Cad's straw hat that
he bought-- sorry-- and, yeah, we're going to make
the Platinum Dragon look like a really cool
farmer.
SAM: All right. Okay. So we're going to mess with
the statue.
LAURA: Yeah, that's what I do. Is it stupid or
something?
SAM: What if someone comes in? We kill everyone in
the place?
LAURA: No, if somebody comes in, you need to
distract them, okay? Don't let anybody see me,
because this might take a while.
SAM: So I'm the distraction and the lookout.
LAURA: You're the distraction. I also Invoke
Duplicity to where it looks like I'm still there
on the outside and I can also be hanging out with
you so you don't look like a random person.
MATT: What do you disguise yourself to be?
LAURA: The old woman that was in the other, yeah.
MATT: You guys approach in the evening, together?
Are you disguising yourself as well?
LAURA: Ooh, no. You know what I should disguise
myself as? The sermon guy. Yeah.
MATT: Okay. Jester, now taking the elderly form of
a silver-scaled, very well-respected, Herald of
the House Kumas. You approach the temple a few
hours after sundown, to where the interest in
worship tends to fade as folks go back to home.
It's mostly just a few caretakers that watch it
through the night and some lost souls that have
found their way there in the evening and they need
guidance.
LAURA: Get them out.
SAM: They're in there?
LAURA: Yeah, distract them and make them go away.
SAM: All right, I'll do my best.
LAURA: You know what you should say, say that the
sermon guy, whoever I am, tell them I need some
quiet time in the temple.
SAM: All right. I'll disguise myself using
Disguise Self as an elderly gnomish woman, and
I'll wander into the temple, I guess. Ahem, pardon
me. All patrons, I have a request from the Holy
Father himself that we vacate the premises. They
have to refresh all the holy water-- that's good--
every 30 days, and wouldn't you know it? Today's
that day! So out of the pool for a few minutes,
and then when it's all refreshed, we'll come and
you can come right back in. Just a break! Go and
take a break.
MATT: Make a deception check with disadvantage,
because you didn't even use his name. That I've
said twice.
MARISHA: Our lord and savior.
LAURA: Natural 20, natural 20.
SAM: Okay, not bad. Even better. This is what?
MATT: Deception.
SAM: Oh no. That's a negative three.
TRAVIS: A negative three to your deception?
LAURA: Oh, you really should've taken that potion
beforehand.
SAM: The one that you stole from me?
LAURA: Yeah, that one.
SAM: That's a 13. Disadvantage, minus three. I
still got pretty good.
MATT: Okay. Of the six individuals that are here,
there are two that actually are of the temple.
There are four that are here, meditation. One
looks like a young man, looking like he might be
on hard times and has tear marks on his face where
he may have been looking up to the statue and
revelling. The four people that were attending see
you and, "Oh," and they get up and start gathering
their things. The two that work at the temple are
confused, look at each other, and look at you, and
begin to walk towards you.
SAM: Are they carrying weapons of any sort, or
vestments or jewels?
MATT: No, they're wearing tabards that are mostly
a silver-white color with the symbol of Bahamut,
the blue with the silver dragon. They're simply
dressed. They're the caretakers of the temple,
low-level priests of the Platinum Dragon. As they
approach, one of them looks to be a mid-30s human
male, male-pattern baldness taking a large portion
of his shorter, blond hair. The other one appears
to be a half-elven man as well. He looks younger,
but looks can be deceiving with half-elves. They
both approach with a somewhat concerned look and
the half-elf speaks up first and goes, "I'm sorry,
"you said that the Holy Father needs the room
cleared?"
LAURA: I come up from behind.
SAM: Is there anything around us, like donation
jars, or anything around us? I don't know how
churches work, guys.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Do they have a ticket-taker? 14.
MATT: Looking around, there are bowls throughout
the room. Most of them appear to be empty, a few
of them have a few knick-knacks thrown in there.
They may have been things that people left as a
gift or an offering. A few copper, one of them
could even have a silver. You don't see any other
boxes. It looks like they're cleared out fairly
frequently.
SAM: If there's one close to me, I would like to
cast Mage Hand and grab it.
MATT: Okay. Triple-checking if Mage Hand has--
SAM: I'm sure I will drop my form.
MATT: Well, Disguise Self remains cast. However,
Mage Hand, if I recall, may have--
SAM: It's an action to make it appear.
MATT: Correct, but it's verbal and somatic, so as
they're approaching, you look back and forth and
begin casting a spell. As this is happening, they
both go, "Uh--"
LAURA: No! I step up from behind Nott. Thank you,
dear. My assistant did as I asked. I really needed
some quiet time alone in the temple tonight.
MATT: "I wasn't aware you had an assistant?"
LAURA: I just hired her.
MATT: Make a deception check.
SAM: Oh god.
LAURA: 16?
MATT: One of them goes, "Oh, of course, my
apologies, Your Grace," and the human leaves. The
half-elf still seems dubious. "Your Grace, you
seem to be rather weary. Perhaps I should stay and
"make sure you need help."
LAURA: I need some quiet time.
MATT: "I'll be quiet."
LAURA: No, no. (coughs) No.
SAM: I think what His Holiness is trying to convey
is that he will be going on a spiritual journey,
and there's only room on that train for one dude!
LAURA: Scoot on out. Scoot it.
MATT: "Of course, Your Grace." The half-elf
leaves, but his eyes don't deviate. He appears to
leave the room.
SAM: That was perfect.
LAURA: That went really well! Right? Okay. You
stand right here.
SAM: I'm going to watch the door. They all went
out the front door?
MATT: There's open archways that lead down long
hallways, and they all appear to have left the
hallways.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to Invoke Duplicity. I'm
going to make it look like he's kneeling down in
the doorway, praying. Then I'm going to run up,
and I want to start painting up the Platinum
Dragon.
MATT: Okay, so your Invoke Duplicity's there, and
you-- the Platinum Dragon's about 15 feet up.
LAURA: Yeah, I climb on up! I start painting.
MATT: Make an athletics check.
TALIESIN: We're going to be busting you out of
jail.
TRAVIS and LIAM: Yep.
LAURA: That's a 22.
MATT: Using very minute ledges that are carved out
of the various temple pillars that hold up and
maintain the weight of the beautiful archways that
mark the top part of the temple, you tiny rock
climb with the finger strength that only Jester
has in this whole group setup, and make your way
up carefully-- one, two-- leap and then grab onto
the Platinum Dragon. It hangs back and forth a
bit, and you can now see-- what you can't see from
far down is there are two sets of chains that hold
it aloft up in the temple. It is free hanging and
now you're rocking back and forth.
LAURA: Ooh, you know what? I could just knock this
down. That could be really good, too.
SAM: That would be faster. I'm going to hide in
one of the pews.
MATT: Make a stealth check.
LAURA: I start climbing up and I want to paint it
rainbow colors. I feel like that would be a really
nice addition for the Platinum Dragon.
MATT: Okay. You begin painting rainbow colors and
pulling out all your various pigments and the
platinum begins to give way to a Technicolor vomit
nightmare.
LAURA: With a mustache. And a straw hat.
MATT: As you're getting to the mustache, you hear
many, many footfalls approaching and a voice
saying, "Yeah, just this way, I--"
LAURA: I drop down and run.
MATT: Okay. As he's in the middle of talking,
(thud). Make an acrobatics check, because it's a
15-foot drop.
LAURA: 21.
MATT: Wow, okay. A three-point landing in the
middle. You're still--
LAURA: I'm still the dragon.
MATT: But there's also the Invoke Duplicity of him
there, so there's one, he goes, "That's the--"
(thud), "What? Huh?"
LAURA: (shrieks) And I run.
MATT: They give chase. They go, "After whoever
that is!" There are now five crownsguard and two
members of the House giving chase down one of the
hallways.
LAURA: Was there an exit? Looking for an exit.
MATT: Make a perception check to look around you, as
this is happening rather rapidly.
SAM: Oh god. I'm going to follow from behind
stealthily.
LAURA: 23.
MATT: As you're rushing down, you look and there's
two open doorways. One of them appears to be a
dark interior, the other appears to lead to some
sort of candlelight. The hall's coming to an end
ahead of you. Right or left, which way are you
going?
LAURA: Wait. Say that again.
MATT: There's two open doorways. One is dark on
the inside, the other seems to have candlelight
from the interior.
LAURA: Dark.
MATT: All right, you duck into the dark room.
LAURA: This is like a Choose Your Own Adventure.
MATT: Yeah. The footfalls are coming faster and
faster behind you, and Nott, you're noticing that
they're drawing weapons and one of them appears to
be pulling out some sort of a bead out of their
pocket. That's all you notice.
SAM: Okay. I'm going to scream as loud as I can
from behind them, and scream: Oh my god, he's dead!
MATT: Well, they all immediately stop and look
behind at you.
LAURA: How many are there?
MATT: There's five crownsguard and then two
members of the church.
LAURA: Okay, I'm hiding in the room.
MATT: Make a stealth check, please.
MARISHA: At least four stars on Grand Theft Auto.
LAURA: 19.
MATT: You think you may be hidden. They turn and
look at you. "What?"
SAM: He stopped breathing! He's back there, didn't
you see him?
MATT: Make a deception check.
SAM: Oh god. That's a nine.
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: As they're all looking, the one that had the
bead goes-- throws it your direction.
LAURA: Oh no, dodge it!
SAM: I'll try.
MATT: That's an 18 to hit.
SAM: That hits.
MATT: Okay. Let me look this up again. I wasn't
expecting it to go this way.
SAM: There's no save, right?
MATT: I'm going to double-check. You make a
dexterity saving throw.
SAM: Whew. Thank goodness. I'm wearing my cloak,
so I get advantage. That's a natural 20.
MATT: Okay, so you don't take any force damage.
However, this sphere of translucent force has
completely encapsulated you.
SAM: Jester?
MATT: And you're just slowly rolling back, like
(rumbling).
SAM: Ah, Jester!
MATT: Two of the guards come over to flank it, the
other three continue their travel with the two
members of the church, so there's five. They then
duck into the dark room where you are, as one of
them lights a torch to light up the chamber. Now
you quickly made your way through, this is a
storage chamber, and on the inside you can see
there's a bunch of candles, there's a bunch of
statues and things that are used in various
ceremonies. There's a number of wooden hanging
rods, that they place a lot of vestments on that
are not used. They're for more formal events
and celebrations and holidays. You have put your
way into a corner between one of these boxes and
some of the raiments in the hope that you won't be
seen. They are going to make a very thorough
investigation of the room.
LAURA: Okay, and when they come in the room--
MATT: They begin to slowly look through. One of
the members of the church, after the first 30
seconds of not finding anyone, darts off. So
there's only four in the chamber, he's going to
look elsewhere. The crownsguard begin to peek
through, lifting up pieces of equipment, lifting
up the tops of storage containers.
LAURA: How big is the room?
MATT: The room's about 15 by ten feet, it's not a
very large room.
LAURA: Oh bejeebies.
SAM: By the way, I only have advantage on
stealth, not on saving throws.
MATT: Okay, so roll again.
SAM: So the first roll that I had rolled was a
five, which adds up to a 12.
MATT: Oh!
SAM: So I will take damage.
MATT: You do. You take 5d4 points of force
damage.
LAURA: 5d4?
MATT: Five, seven, eight. You take 11 points of
force damage.
SAM: Oh. Thank you. Thank you, sir! May I have
another?
MATT: So this is equivalent essentially to an
Otiluke's Resilient Sphere. You're in a hamster
ball, but the two guards that are right there are
flanking it and holding it in place so you can't move.
LAURA: I cast Blink on myself.
MATT: Okay. As one of them turns, and just manages
to pull the raiments aside, revealing your face.
"Uh, I found them!" (whoosh) "Wait. No, she was
right-- He was right, I-- Spread out!" And they
all begin to scatter out into the hallways now.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: You move--
LAURA: Stealthily. If I-- yeah, because I can move
like, what, ten feet with Blink? Or can I--
TRAVIS: You can reappear ten feet away. It's
either ten or five.
LAURA: I've never used Blink before!
TRAVIS: But you have to roll for it.
MATT: Correct. So with Blink, at the start of your
next turn, you return within ten feet of where you
vanished.
TRAVIS: But you've got to roll 11 or higher for
you to even blink out in the first place.
MATT: So go ahead and roll.
LAURA: Oh, jeebies.
TRAVIS: You got it. 11 or higher. No problem.
TALIESIN: It's fine.
LAURA: Eight.
MARISHA: Oh no!
LAURA: Goddamnit. Why did you have to say
anything?
MATT: No, thank you. Keep her honest on that one.
LIAM: Is the Traveler happy with you yet?
MATT: So your form flickers for a moments as the
spell kicks in. However: you vanish, "Spread out!"
You're right back in place. "Wait!" and they go
ahead--
LAURA: Charm Person!
MATT: You cast Charm Person? All right, it--
LAURA: At 3rd-level. How many have I used?
SAM: Jesus. You're using every spell you have.
LAURA: Yes, I am.
TALIESIN: This is going to be an expensive problem
to solve here.
MATT: Okay, so you can target three creatures at
3rd-level.
LAURA: How many are in the room?
MATT: There are--
LAURA: Three in the room now, right?
MATT: Four in the room total.
TRAVIS: Are there?
MATT: Oh, no. Because there are two guards against
him, so there's three after her. Yes, that's
crownsguard.
TALIESIN: And then you lost one of them.
MATT: And then one left so there are four in
there.
LAURA: There are four in there?
MATT: There's three crownsguard and one member of
the house. Who do you attack?
TRAVIS: You can kill him.
LAURA: Yeah, the crownsguard.
MATT: All right, so they have advantage on this
save, because you are technically in opposition on
this one.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: So the first crownsguard, with advantage.
That's going to be a 14. What's the DC?
LAURA: 15.
MATT: 15, he fails. Other one, two sixes in a row:
fail! The third one, two and-- No, they all fail!
Even with advantage.
TRAVIS: Get the fuck out.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: So the three crownsguard come in and are
like, "Have you seen where this person went?
"Apparently someone's masquerading as you."
LAURA: Been looking everywhere for him. Can't find
him anywhere. Maybe check that room with the
candles on the other side of the hallway.
MATT: "We'll go check."
SAM and MARISHA: That room with the candles!
MATT: The three crownsguard turn around and rush
off to find it, while the member of the house, the
half-elf from earlier, is like, "Nobody? That's--
That's him! Ugh." and is going to rush to try and
grab you. Go ahead and roll another d20.
SAM: Just use your handaxe! Oh, wait.
LAURA: Oh no. Five.
MATT: Five. No, it's going to go for a full
grapple. It's an athletics check.
LAURA: Can I-- That's 2nd-level, I can cast it. I
cast Hold Person. On them.
MATT: Okay. That is going to be a 16. I believe
that's a success. Yeah, 13 plus three.
LAURA: Grr. (grumbling) You're weak, I'm strong.
MATT: However, it does come in and go to grapple
you and hold you in place. So you're currently now
being held in this form by the entity. You can try
and break free by doing an athletics check.
LAURA: I try to break free.
MATT: Okay, try it.
LAURA: Oh, god!
LIAM: Just everybody think back to the stink eye
Laura gave us on the hospital run.
LAURA: Yeah, I know. What do I add to this? What do
I add?
MATT: Your athletics check.
LAURA: My athletics.
SAM: I'm going to die trying to help her graffiti
a statue in a church.
LAURA: Sure, it's a 12.
MATT: 12, you are grappled.
LAURA: Goddang it!
MATT: However go ahead and roll another d20
because your Blink spell is still active.
LAURA: Oh! 20!
MATT: You vanish out of their grasp. "What the?!
How?" Begins to just-- Pushing things over and
looking around for wherever you may have gone.
Next round, you appear ten feet from where you
were. Where do you want to appear?
LAURA: Out the doorway.
MATT: You appear in the doorway. The three guard
are in the other chamber, and they are currently--
You can now see into the other room where you
didn't run and it looks to be the bedchambers of
the actual Kumas.
LAURA: Oh, no.
MATT: You can hear him like, "What's going on? I
was trying to sleep." They're like, "Ah, sir,
"there's a-- Wait."
LAURA: I take off running.
MATT: As you go running down the hallway, at this
point--
LAURA: Oh, would I Blink again?
MATT: The two other crownsguard, who are currently
guarding Nott-- you see now Nott is encapsulated
in this bubble and is like, "Ah!" and one of them
is pulling out chains and cuffs on them, and
they're preparing to essentially arrest Nott once
this bubble goes away. They both turn around in
the middle of this scuffle, and see you running
towards them.
LAURA: Charm Person, 2nd-level!
LIAM: Jeez Louise!
MATT: With advantage, one of them succeeds: two
17's in a row. The other--
LAURA: I know. When I Blink though--
MATT: The other one fails, a seven and a one. So
one of them just looks at you and smiles. The one
holding the chains for Nott. The other one pulls a
blade.
LAURA: I walk in. Slow down and walk up like: I
heard somebody was impersonating me in here. Have
you found them yet?
MATT: Make a deception check with disadvantage.
LIAM: I'm old!
LAURA: A 16. This was supposed to go much quicker.
I'm sorry, guys.
MATT: The blade is pulled out and goes, "We're
sorry, sir. We were called in here. There was
"apparently a disturbance and we found this one. We
are preparing arrest."
LAURA: I saw your other guard friends running
that direction. I think the impersonator was back there.
MATT: "Well, good. Hopefully they'll go ahead and
catch them. We have to wait for this one."
LAURA: I heard them shouting for help, though. They
were really shouting. Shouting for a lot of help.
MATT: The one you charmed goes, "Well, I'll go
ahead and find out," and then walks over to help
them while the one who resisted the charm just
sits there and takes the chains from him and is
now waiting for Nott to get out. By the way, roll
a d20.
LAURA: Oh. Shit.
TRAVIS: Oh, here we go.
LAURA: Ten. No, I'm still there.
TRAVIS: (poof, poof) Don't mind that.
LAURA: Last chance. All alone.
MATT: The other person from the house comes by,
the half-elf, and says "You fool! That's the one
"that's been--" Now the actual Herald of the House
comes out. He's got his pajamas on, and he's like,
"What's going-- What's this?"
LAURA: Ah! How do I get out of this? Can I cast
Dispel Magic on Nott's bubble?
MATT: Go ahead and roll a d20.
SAM: God, you've cast 19 spells.
LAURA: No I haven't! I've--
MATT: Add your wisdom modifier.
LAURA: That's good. Oh my god, that's-- what is
that, 23?
MATT: Bubble vanishes. Nott, you fall to your
feet. The guy with the chains is going to go ahead and
reach out to attempt to grapple you with them.
Make an acrobatics check. That was cocked.
SAM: Acrobatics?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: 17.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: 17? 15. You slip out of it in time. Roll a
d20.
LAURA: Oh, I might Blink again! Jesus!
MARISHA: You guys, get out of this.
LAURA: Seven!
MARISHA: Aw, shit.
LAURA: Run! Oh shit!
MATT: Seven; okay. You guys start bolting. At this
point you can hear footsteps coming from the other
entrance hall as more folks are coming in to join
the chaos, what are you doing? Just full dash?
LAURA: Full dash. Full dash?
SAM: Full dash, yes. Full dash.
MATT: All right, Laura, roll a d20.
LAURA: Oh god. 12.
MATT: As you are running, Jester disappears.
SAM: I don't know where she went!
LAURA: Just go!
SAM: I'm going to run another 15 feet. Does anyone
have eyes on me right now?
MATT: Everyone behind you has eyes on you, and
you're about to come back into the center of the
temple where there are two hallways that exit to
the front and the back. The right and the left
both exit the temple, but you also hear footsteps
coming from somewhere. What are you doing?
SAM: Oh my god.
LIAM: Somewhere in another part of the city
entirely, Caleb's going: Oh, that's interesting.
SAM: I will full dash and get out of there, and
turn left.
MATT: Okay. Using your bonus action, you scoot
past, turn left, and see two crownsguard that are
approaching now, hearing this commotion, and you
scoot past them. "Hey!" They're unable to catch up
to you, you're too fast, but they're giving chase.
Laura, you reappear ten feet from where you were.
You are now again in the center of the temple, and
there's a wave of people rushing towards you.
There's now two crownsguard rushing towards the
direction where Nott is, and you see Nott tearing
ass away.
MARISHA: You know in Matrix 2, that overhead shot
of all the agents filling into the center? That's
what I imagine: waves and waves of agents.
TRAVIS: Do you still look like the lord of the--
MATT: Yep!
LAURA: I've got one more 2nd-level spell left. I'm
going to cast Mirror Image on myself.
MATT: Okay. Now there are multiple copies of the
Herald of the House Kumas. It's an army of old
dudes, old dragonborns.
LAURA: I take off running towards wherever the
smallest amount of people coming--
MATT: That would be to the right, the opposite
direction that Nott went. You charge that
direction. You move the rest of your movement that
way 30 feet. Roll another d20.
LAURA: I'm using all my 20s here. 12, shit!
TRAVIS: Two steps!
LIAM: Wait, they all blink out?
LAURA: Do my Mirror Images blink out too?
MATT: Yeah, they all do, because you're not
present.
LAURA: Oh god!
MATT: Nott, you've managed to make it out into the
street now. You are now out of the temple.
SAM: I'm going to duck behind something and look
to see if Jester came out.
MATT: Make a stealth check to see if you can manage
to lose the folks that are chasing you into the street.
TALIESIN: That, you have advantage on.
SAM: 25.
MATT: You manage to dodge over a few rain barrels
on the side, dart down one alleyway, and circle
around once and duck beneath a parked wagon.
You're pretty sure they've lost you. They're now
starting to scatter and give orders off in
different directions. You've caused quite a
commotion. Jester, you've returned into place. Your
first time using Blink and you're like, "Oh god!
"What's happening?!"
LAURA: Ah! I take off running again.
TALIESIN: Mirror Images going everywhere.
LAURA: Yeah, right. Oh god, but if I get a double
dash, I can get farther away, right?
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to try to double dash.
MATT: That's a full 60 feet of movement as you're
rushing down the other hallway. You hear the
voices behind you shouting, "There he is! Keep
going! How are there so many of him?! What's
"going on?!" Roll another d20.
LAURA: Oh god, okay. Five. Keep running.
MATT: You keep running and make your way out now
into the night air.
LAURA: I drop Blink.
MATT: Okay, you drop Blink, spell's gone.
LAURA: I drop Disguise Self.
MATT: The guards are now rushing up and coming to
the edge of the exit and they can see you now.
LAURA: Oh, they can see me? Can I turn a corner
and drop Disguise Self?
MATT: You could try, but they still have eyes
trained on you.
LAURA: Oh god, I'm not going to drop Disguise
Self, then. I'm going to keep going. I want to do
it as soon as I'm out of eyeshot for a split
second.
MATT: You've got to try and find a way to break
eye contact with them, but they're pretty trained
on you right now.
LAURA: Oh! Can I Invoke Duplicity? No, I already
did it. I get it twice!
MATT: You do get it twice. You get Channel
Divinity twice.
LAURA: Yeah! So I want to Invoke Duplicity again.
Oh, wait! I have something where I can turn
invisible!
MATT: That's right!
LAURA: I just got it! I'm going to use it!
MATT: The Cloak of Shadows thing? All right, cool.
As they're chasing, you Channel Divinity. You give
a silent little whispered prayer to the Traveler
to give you the opportunity to escape.
LAURA: Please don't fuck me!
MATT: You vanish. You are invisible for the next
six seconds.
LAURA: I run as fast as I can and turn a corner.
MATT: Okay, and with that, you duck around into a
little nook on the outside of an abode or home
that's placed here on the outside of the temple.
In that moment, make a stealth check with
advantage, because you're invisible.
LAURA: Natural 20!
MATT: Okay.
(laughter)
MATT: You hear the voices of the crownsguard going
on like, "What--where-- Spread out! Where did you
"see them go?" "I didn't see. They just vanished!"
"This is ridiculous. We're all going to get into
"serious trouble if we don't find them." They all
begin to scatter about, and you begin to weave
your way through some of the nearby alleyways into
the shadows of the night. Yeah, that invisibility
completely cut off their eyeline to keep following
you.
LIAM: Got any spell slots left?
LAURA: I do. I'm going to change Disguise Self and
make myself look like a little beggar human girl,
and I'm going to walk.
MATT: With that, you manage to slowly blend back
into the night chaos.
TRAVIS: That is easily the most fucked two
characters have ever been, to a full reversal!
That is the deepest fuckage we've ever dipped a
toe in.
LIAM: Not since Scanbo, I think.
LAURA: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: Keyleth getting arrested, I don't give a
shit. You guys were fucked.
LAURA: I probably should have stayed up on the
dragon there.
LIAM: That is also the most exciting night Kumas
has had in ten years.
MATT: Oh, yeah! I'll say that, within the next
couple of days, word has gotten around the city of
Zadash, to the point where some of the town criers
are talking about, "Terrible vandalism! Platinum
"Dragon nearly ruined by upstarts and secret cabal
of anti-religious hate!"
TRAVIS: (laughing) Secret cabal, because there
are so many of them!
MATT: As your evening comes to a close and you go
back to The Leaky Tap to go for a rest, you have a
moment to yourself to think and have a moment to
breathe and gain a little bit of calm. You sense a
presence. Sitting on the bed next to you, you see
the familiar dark green cloak.
LAURA: Hi. Did you see what I did?
MATT: "I did."
LAURA: Do you like me again?
MATT: "I was never disappointed in the first
place, Jester." The hood still obscuring most of
the face, just the lower jaw and mouth visible.
LAURA: Why didn't you come?
MATT: "I did."
LAURA: I didn't see you.
MATT: "You don't need to see me to know that I'm
with you. And you're free now."
LAURA: Yeah. You promise you won't leave?
MATT: "As long as you continue to be that
wonderful little seed of joy and chaos in the
"world, I'll be walking behind you the entire
time."
LAURA: If things had gotten really bad, though,
you would have stepped in, right? You wouldn't
have let something really bad happen?
MATT: "Not within my power, no."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "I do appreciate your artwork."
LAURA: I think he looks better now.
MATT: "You're improving. Keep meeting new people.
Tell them of what we have accomplished. We want
"more friends, don't we?"
LAURA: So many.
MATT: "Do you think I could have a look at that
strange relic?"
LAURA: Which one? We found a lot of relics.
MATT: "The one that you procured from that
Xhorhasian warrior."
LAURA: Oh, the box? Yeah, of course. I dig into
the haversack and show it to him.
MATT: He extends his hand and takes it and looks
to it.
LAURA: What do you think it is?
MATT: You see the side of the mouth of the
Traveler curl into an amused smirk. "Curious.
"Curious, indeed."
LAURA: He said something about having babies or
something with it. I can't remember.
MATT: "I don't think I've ever come across magic
like that."
LAURA: What kind of magic is it?
MATT: "I don't know. I've not come across it
before. I'm interested, definitely. Be careful
"with that. Things that are unknown are notably
able to draw dangerous and inquiring eyes and minds."
LAURA: So I should keep it hidden?
MATT: "I think you should."
LAURA: I'll keep it in this pink bag. It's very
discreet.
MATT: "There are more like you out there."
LAURA: I saw a couple medallions for you.
MATT: "Well, I am worth worshipping, after all."
LAURA: Obviously.
MATT: "But you are my favorite."
LAURA: I was going to ask if I was!
MATT: "I hope that maybe you could all meet
someday."
LAURA: I would love that. I, of course, will be
the leader of your worship, obviously.
MATT: "Perhaps sometime next year. For the day of
the Zenith in Undillar. Yes, I think that."
LAURA: I'm writing it in my sketchbook. Will you
tell them? And then I'll meet them there?
MATT: "They all speak to me."
LAURA: Okay. Wow. Thanks, thank you. Thank you,
Traveler.
MATT: The hand reaches out and touches yours. You
can feel the contact, but it's strangely cold. You
blink, and the Traveler's gone.
LAURA: (sighs) I draw so many things in my
sketchbook. All of it.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: (whispering) He's organizing Traveler
Con.
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay, now I've got to go feed the baby.
MATT: Yeah. Now, let's take a break. I didn't
realize the time had gone by quite so far. My
apologies, people.
LIAM: It's almost like a game of D&D.
MATT: I know, it's crazy. We won't have quite as
long a second half. Probably much at all. But
yeah, we'll take a break here. For those who are
interested in being part of the giveaway
tonight, we have this fantastic cherry dice tower
system with cartography from our fantastic,
talented friend, Deven Rue, who did our Wildemount
campaign guide. It has this really awesome leather
dragon face bind to it. The cartography that's
been burned into it that is gorgeous. So this dice
tower-- oh, it smells good. You can be a part of
this-- apparently this is on Kickstarter now, so
you can check that out with our friends at
Wyrmwood as part of the giveaway. You have to head
over to the Critical Role chatroom on Twitch,
that's twitch.tv/criticalrole to enter. The
keyword tonight-- which you only enter once, any
more than that and you'll get disqualified-- the
keyword is "chapter." Just the word "chapter."
We'll come back from the break with one winner,
here, announced, so we'll see you here in a few
minutes.
MATT: Welcome back. Before we get back into this,
we have our winner of the giveaway, of the fantastic
Deven Rue-carved cherry wood dice tower system.
The winner is Mellydew. Congratulations. We'll get
your info and get this sent out to you ASAP, so
thank you for being a part. Laura will be joining
us shortly; she's finishing feeding the baby.
TRAVIS: Yeah, feed the baby, give it life.
LIAM: Feed me!
MATT: It works out okay. Having all spent the
majority of these two weeks handling your
business, wandering through Zadash and beyond,
returning, what do you wish to do? You guys have
regathered in the Leaky Tap.
TALIESIN: (groaning) I'm going to pretend to be a
small, old platinum dragon.
SAM: He's out, get him!
LIAM: (as Kumas) I want rice pudding!
TRAVIS: An uneventful two weeks for everyone, I
assume?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Not much happened.
MARISHA: Nah, not a lot to report.
LIAM: I got a lot of reading done.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's good. New books?
LIAM: Oh, library books, so they're not mine.
That's the beauty of a library.
TRAVIS: Right. Beau, you look like you got a
couple new little marks and stuff.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah. Just, you know, I think I can
punch ghosts now.
TALIESIN: A lot of ghosts need punching?
MARISHA: Have you ever met a ghost that doesn't
need punching?
LIAM: Is this a realization that you had?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I never even met a ghost. How would
you punch it?
MARISHA: I just know if I saw a ghost, I would
want to punch it. Ghosts are scary.
TRAVIS: Okay. Nott?
SAM: What?
TRAVIS: How was your--?
SAM: I did a lot of drinking.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
SAM: Yep. Just drinking and thinking.
TRAVIS: Nice.
LIAM: You were off on your own. Are you okay?
SAM: Yeah, a little bit. You know, it's easier to
steal things when you can pay for them with
money.
LIAM: That's true.
TRAVIS: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Yes.
TRAVIS: How was your time?
TALIESIN: Yes. I've met a ghost that I didn't want
to punch.
MARISHA: You have met a ghost you didn't want to
punch.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I thought of one. Oh, what?
TRAVIS: Have you met more than one ghost before?
TALIESIN: I mean, yeah.
MARISHA: Oh, you didn't get to see where we found
this guy. It was definitely a cemetery. He was
living in the middle of a cemetery.
TRAVIS: You don't have to tell me any more, it's
fine. I'll just imagine the worst possible--
TALIESIN: That's where the temple is, in the
middle of the cemetery. Actually, technically it's
not a cemetery. It's a graveyard.
MARISHA: Okay, there's a difference?
TALIESIN: Graveyard has an attached temple,
cemetery is just by itself.
SAM: I did not know that.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I know a couple things.
TRAVIS: I have a request. Upon further inspection
of this here letter, Quen'pillar is the month that
we're in, which we all know, right?
TALIESIN: Is it Quen'pillar already?
TRAVIS: It is. How time flies.
MARISHA: They're going to start putting up Winter
Crest decorations in the stores. We have to start
thinking about what we're going to get each
other.
TALIESIN: Two weeks earlier every year.
TRAVIS: While I have no idea who Marius LePual or
Evantica or any of this is, this was supposed to
be delivered by the end of this month to the
Wayfarer's Cove.
TALIESIN: What's the Wayfarer's Cove?
TRAVIS: It's back in-- help me?
MATT: The Menagerie Coast.
TRAVIS: The Menagerie Coast. Where Jester and I
are from.
LIAM: Is it an actual cove?
MARISHA: Have you been there?
TRAVIS: I have. Nicodranas is where Jester's from,
I'm from Port Damali.
MARISHA: And you don't know any of these people?
TRAVIS: I don't. I don't?
MATT: You don't.
TRAVIS: I don't.
TALIESIN: You talking about making a trip? Taking
off?
TRAVIS: I was thinking about it. I journeyed a
little further south. I'm actually looking for
someone and I had been meaning to head back that
way, anyway. If this is taking us in that
direction, if it'll teach us anything more about
the, you know, (grunting).
MARISHA: Yeah. That definitely looks like it, too.
Looks a lot like what sucked into your body. That
was a weird night.
TRAVIS: Yes, it was.
TALIESIN: Is that like a peach pit or something?
LIAM: An abused cantaloupe.
TALIESIN: Oh, that'll happen.
MARISHA: An angry marble.
TALIESIN: I don't know why that's somehow weirder
than abused cantaloupe.
SAM: Ill-tempered bowling ball.
(laughter)
MARISHA: You get the picture.
TRAVIS: Either way, I don't feel very comfortable
with it residing in my person.
MARISHA: How do you feel, actually? Do you feel
it?
TRAVIS: Nope, I just feel like me. It was the
vision that came with it that fucked me up a
little bit.
MARISHA: Did you have any more visions when you
were captured?
TRAVIS: No, but I just kept replaying it over and
over. It was dark for so long, and there was
nothing really to distract you. I just kept seeing
his face, and him holding the orb and pushing it
into his, or my chest, and the body on the
ground.
MARISHA: Jesus.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm not having visions right now, so I'm
happy to follow another one. This is not where I'm
supposed to be.
MARISHA: Thanks, Caduceus.
TRAVIS: Does he say stuff like that a lot?
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
SAM: I'm happy to entertain your desire to go find
out more about this ball inside of you, but
there's other things we might want to do, too.
TRAVIS: Sure, yeah.
SAM: Caleb, you have things that you wanted to
accomplish to the north, right?
LIAM: Oh, no. No, I have no specific destination
in mind. I'm happy to accompany you if the group
sees fit.
MARISHA: Have you ever been to the Menagerie
Coast? How far south have you been?
LIAM: No, I have never been out of the Empire.
MARISHA: Yeah, me neither.
TRAVIS: It's warmer, and there's certainly less
snow.
MARISHA: That's a plus, you guys! Going in the
wintertime kind of sucks.
TALIESIN: I'm already sold.
MARISHA: Plus, further away from the frontlines in
this war.
LIAM: What about you?
SAM: Me? I'll go where you go, Caleb. I worry
about a couple things. Yasha said she'd come back
when she was ready, and if we're not here, then I
don't know how she'll find us.
MARISHA: I feel like her and Molly always had a
connection. She always knew how to find us because
she knew how to find Molly.
SAM: We could leave word, I suppose.
MARISHA: What?!
LIAM: Can't Jester send messages?
TALIESIN: Finding Molly's all about who you know.
SAM: Yes, Jester could send her a message.
MARISHA: Your past self isn't allowed to laugh at
current things.
TALIESIN: I'm having a weird-- yes.
MARISHA: No reactions from Molly here.
MATT: Are you drinking from a Caduceus mug?
TALIESIN: Maybe, you don't know.
MATT: I love that. That's amazing.
MARISHA: It's so great.
TRAVIS: Who are you drinking?
LIAM: (shouting) Who are you drinking?
SAM: If we could send Yasha a message, that would
be better.
TRAVIS: I previously wanted to go north to the
Soltryce Academy, but I feel like that's another
step in the direction that's not pressing for
right now.
MARISHA: Plus, it sounds like, gauging by this
letter, someone's going to catch up with us sooner
or later looking for whatever's inside of you.
TRAVIS: Yeah. There's no telling that they're going to
share any information with me, anyway. I'm fucking
absorbing things and shit just appears and I'm
getting stronger by the day and it has nothing to
do with the things that I'm learning. There's no
books or knowledge, it's just happening. What if
they look at me like you guys look at me
sometimes? What if they don't let me go? Maybe
that's not where I need to be.
MARISHA: How we look at you sometimes? Like you're
awesome? Like we're awestruck?
TRAVIS: Like weird shit is happening.
MARISHA: That's accurate, yeah, I do look at you
like that sometimes.
LIAM: And not very explained at all.
TRAVIS: It's hard when you're the only one
experiencing it. It's hard to relay.
LIAM: Well, what if you tried?
TRAVIS: I'm certainly open to that.
LIAM: How about right now?
TRAVIS: What do you want to know?
LIAM: Is there any of this that you have not
shared yet?
TRAVIS: No, I don't believe so. I did tell Molly
before we were taken about a crewmate of mine
named Sabian. He was the one that ambushed the
ship, that caused the explosion that threw me
overboard. The one that probably sent Vandren to
his fate. After I woke up on the shore afterwards,
I found the sword and I wasn't quite sure where I
was. I found a road and managed to hitch a ride
back towards Port Damali, and when I got there I
went to Vandren's storehouse, and I planned to go
through his things. I was more high up on the crew
than Sabian was, but his place had been ransacked.
Gone through. Torn through. There was a local
butcher next door that I walked into, and he had
said that he was glad to see at least one other
of us, that no one else had returned. I said: Who
was the other one? He had said Sabian. So I feel
like he somehow survived. He knows what happened,
why it happened. I can't bear the thought of
something happening to me because I'm pursuing
this. And I summon the sword.
MATT: You see as the blade now is this unique
merger of the falchion shape and size, but now
holds this golden tint of the Summer's Dance. It
curves towards the edge and has a slight pointed
jagged arch in the back that the scimitar had
previously held. But still contains the
barnacle-encrusted pattern across the hilt and
there in the center still is the central yellow
gleaming eye.
TRAVIS: I don't want to be focused on this. I want
to be focused on that. Plus, I feel like if those
events led to this, maybe there's a remedy for the
whole thing.
MARISHA: So you want to find Sabian and hope that
he has the answers?
TRAVIS: Or just kill him. That'd be fine. But
yeah, maybe some answers first.
MARISHA: And you're sure this motherfucker was,
like, sole sabotager?
TRAVIS: He and I have a long history. But, after
he-- So we were in the storm. He ran belowdecks,
and he placed a bundle next to a lot of the crates
that we were shipping. That was unusual for him,
so I followed him down and I saw him with a
lantern in his hand, and when he turned he had lit
what looked like a fuse. I called out, he threw a
few daggers at me. They hit; I went down, he ran
past me. Just as I made my way back above decks, I
called his name and I saw him at the bow of the
ship, and it looked like he was preparing to jump
overboard, which in a storm like that is insane.
That's when the explosion hit. It ripped into my
back. It threw me over, and I remember going underwater
and seeing parts of the ship fall, and
flames above the water. I could see things
falling, and some of it was cargo, and some of it
looked like me. I just feel like he was prepared
to get the hell out of Dodge.
TALIESIN: Just so I'm clear, as I really feel like
I'm playing catch up, he's the one responsible for
that, er, pearl that you've got in you?
TRAVIS: No. My teacher and my captain, Vandren, is
the one I saw in this vision, and he had the same
sphere. I saw myself through his eyes, and he was
holding the sphere and pushing it into his chest.
He was also standing over a man. I saw his
reflection. He seemed younger, so I don't know
when it was, but I didn't know that side of him.
He was an exacting man. Firm, but fair, and it
just leaves more questions than I have answers
to.
MARISHA: I mean, no offense or anything, but these
sound like some crazy-ass fucking sailors.
LIAM: You speak of a remedy. How do you mean? Do
you mean you would rid yourself of that blade,
these changes in you? Or am I not hitting it?
TRAVIS: I honestly don't know. I've thought about
what it was like before I had this-- I'll make the
sword disappear. Life was simple, but I don't feel
like I had the ability to affect my surroundings.
I was not a proponent of change. It's selfish, but
I feel like I can do things now. I don't know if I
would get rid of it, but I want to know what
happened to him. I owe him that much.
LIAM: Oh, good morning.
LAURA: Ah, it was a long night. What are you guys
talking about?
LIAM: Our next destination.
MARISHA: Fjord's angry marble in his chest.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I was thinking that if you wouldn't
be opposed, we could go back to the Menagerie
Coast, stop by your mom's place in Nicodranas.
MARISHA: Oh!
LAURA: Well, I mean, I would have to like disguise
myself, but yeah. We could probably go there.
MARISHA: Disguise yourself?
LAURA: Well, I can't go back home.
MARISHA: Oh, right.
LAURA: But if you want to go to the Menagerie
Coast, you know I'm always on board for that,
Fjord. But what about the Academy?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I was telling them I feel like
instruction isn't exactly what I need; it's not
going to get me anything, yet. I just feel like I
need to take steps in the right direction, does
that make sense? Feels like I'm stalling.
TALIESIN: Also the deal with his little--
TRAVIS: Yeah, the letter does say the Wayfarer's
Cove and it says it's supposed to be delivered by
the end of this month, so I feel like there's some
urgency if we're going to capitalize on
intercepting this.
LIAM: For what it's worth, Fjord, Soltryce Academy
normally starts with younger students. Not
exclusively, but generally.
TRAVIS: Oh, I hadn't realized. What if you show up
with inherent abilities?
LIAM: I don't know.
MARISHA: I mean, you don't want to give-- (sighs) I
think, whatever gifts you've been given, they're
natural and progressive. I mean, figure that out
on your own first. You don't want to give them
back, right?
TRAVIS: No, certainly not yet. If it will help me
find that fuck, then I'd prefer to hold onto them.
MARISHA: They're called gifts for a reason, right?
It'd be rude to give them back.
TRAVIS: I don't know how I'd give it back.
TALIESIN: I like that, that's really good.
LAURA: Maybe you have to poop it out.
SAM: Yeah, like passing a stone.
TRAVIS: Poop it out?
LAURA: It would really hurt, but it could happen.
SAM: Could go through his pee-pee hole too.
LAURA: That's true.
MARISHA: Kidney stones.
LAURA: You never know. Maybe somebody else has
already done what you did and they already pooped
it out, and now it's in you.
TRAVIS: Then I ate the poop stone. Yep. Didn't
wash it off or nothing.
LAURA: Nope.
TRAVIS: It was underwater, though, so--
LAURA: That's true. That is true. That's probably
why it was underwater.
LIAM: We're all agreed, then, that Fjord eats
poop.
TRAVIS: Canon.
(laughter)
MATT: No, that's what would have happened if it
actually came out of your pee-hole.
TRAVIS: (laughing) I poop out my pee-hole.
MATT: Anyway.
TRAVIS: Yep.
LAURA: Menagerie Coast, then?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Sure.
TRAVIS: I would hate to go without all of you.
SAM: We stick together.
LIAM: After what we have been through in the last
month, it'd seem foolish to split up now. I'm
curious about the Menagerie Coast.
MARISHA: Me, too.
LAURA: (gasps) You guys could meet my mom!
SAM: I'm excited.
MARISHA: I so want to meet your mom.
TRAVIS: Just to be clear, we can meet your mom,
but you can't?
LAURA: I can meet her; I can see her.
TRAVIS: You're just not supposed to be seen coming
back?
LAURA: Exactly.
TRAVIS: Got it.
LIAM: She would be okay with you--
LAURA: I will let her know to expect us.
TRAVIS: Oh, speaking of-- Before you came down--
SAM: We're going to need you to send a message to
Yasha. Do you need to know where she is to send
that message?
LAURA: Nope, I just need to know it's her.
SAM: It might be good to let her know where we're
going, in case she wants to find us.
LAURA: Okay. I send a message to Yasha. Hello,
Yasha. I'm really sorry that the last time we
left, it was really hard for all of us, but we
wanted to let you know that we are probably--
SAM: (clicks)
TRAVIS: No destination.
LAURA: I send another message to Yasha.
SAM: The next day?
LAURA: No, I've got three-- four 3rd-level
spots, I think. Four, because of my pearl. So I'm
going to send another one: Sorry, I got cut off
earlier. Anyway, what I was saying is that we are
leaving Zadash, and we're on our way out, over the
hills, and we're going to go to probably--
SAM: (clicks)
LAURA: Anyway, I get to it eventually.
(laughter)
MATT: Best use of Sending ever.
LIAM: Seven spell slots later.
SAM: (robotic voice) You have seven new messages.
(laughter)
LIAM: (as Jester) Okay, I'm starting at the top
again.
MATT: Yasha's somewhere just going like, (sighs).
All right, have you guys decided to start making
your way to the Menagerie Coast?
LAURA: Wait, I got to get my handaxe first, so I
pick that up.
MATT: Yeah, easy enough. Pumat's there. "Yeah, we
worked real hard on this one, so I hope you enjoy
"what we've imbued into this
previously-not-very-interesting weapon to make it
"just a whole lot more interesting."
LAURA: It is so interesting now. Did you want to
put a ribbon on it or something to make it
prettier?
MATT: "Do you want to request a ribbon? We've got
multiple colors."
LAURA: (gasps) What colors?
MATT: Green and gold.
SAM: That's multiple.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: It is!
TALIESIN: Technically.
MATT: "By definition, respectfully, not an
incorrect statement."
LAURA: Let's do-- Let's do green.
MATT: "Very well."
LAURA: That way it matches my cape.
MATT: He does this little nice bow.
LAURA: It's really pretty, thank you.
MATT: "Oh, quite literally, the very least I can
do."
LAURA: What does it do?
MATT: It's a plus one.
LAURA: To hit?
MATT: Hit and damage.
LAURA: Ooh!
MATT: Plus one handaxe.
LAURA: Plus one handaxe, thank you.
MATT: No worries.
SAM: Before we set out, I'm going to pull Caleb
aside, and-- A moment, Caleb? Are you sure you
want to go down to the coast? There's stuff for
you to do up north where you were from before.
LIAM: It is dangerous there.
SAM: Of course, but we'll have to do it at some
point. We're all together now.
LIAM: Not yet.
SAM: All right. I won't lie, I'm sort of-- Now
that we're all together again, I wouldn't mind
swinging by my old stomping grounds either.
LIAM: Where's the map? Is that on the way?
SAM: It's on the way. Well, it's on a way north,
if we wanted to go that way.
LIAM: Oh, it's to the north, it's not towards the
Menagerie Coast?
SAM: No, it's more east.
LIAM: Where's the map?
SAM: It's east, it's due east. It's definitely not
west. We're here. It's due east, but the coast is
down here?
MATT: It would be a detour.
TALIESIN: If you really wanted to, we could PCH
this and basically hit the coast and then take
that really annoyingly long drive from San
Francisco-- but it's so pretty.
MATT: There we go, there it is.
MARISHA: (whispering) Thanks, Max.
LIAM: Do you want to propose it to the group? I'm
happy to go, of course.
SAM: I can wait. I don't mind waiting. I don't
have a specific--
MARISHA: You're from Deastok?
SAM: No, Felderwin.
LIAM: What's the time limit on that? It's the end
of the month, right, on the delivery. And we're at
the beginning of this month, or the middle--
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Beginning.
SAM: We'll be back this way again soon. We'll have
to come through Zadash, and we can--
MARISHA: I mean--
LIAM: What if that is the next place we go?
MARISHA: Nott, it looks like the main road goes
through Felderwin anyway.
SAM: Yeah, the main road away from the Menagerie
Coast.
MARISHA: Yeah, but-- yep, you're right. Maybe
that's-- that's a river. That's not a road.
TRAVIS: That's a big-ass road.
MARISHA: That's a real big--
TRAVIS: You can see that and mountains.
LIAM: So much water on this road!
LAURA: Before we leave, can I stop by the Pillow
Trove and let them know any mail coming for me or
Ms. Lavorre, Esquire, please forward that to the
Menagerie Coast by way of Nicodranas and my mom's place?
MATT: Okay. The Ruby of the Sea has been placed in
as your forwarding service.
TRAVIS: Shit.
LIAM: Tell you what: after the coast, we will
propose it to the group. If they don't want to go,
I will go with you.
SAM: All right. You're more powerful now, aren't
you? I saw you got a bunch of paper.
TRAVIS: Got that paper!
LIAM: Eh. I don't know.
SAM: Well, you've been doing new spells and
things. It's pretty--
LIAM: Go ahead.
SAM: No, it's pretty incredible. Have you been
able to do anything that you've wanted to-- Been
studying? Like some special, spectacular spells
that can--
LIAM: I mean, I've expanded my repertoire. I have
a few new tricks that I will hold onto for the
right moment. Are you okay?
SAM: I think so! I think I'm okay.
LIAM: Okay. You seem a little restless to me.
SAM: Ever since Molly fell, I've just been--
there's a bit of a sense of urgency, you know? We
have things that we need to do and we don't have
forever to do them. I want to keep you on your
path and I want to keep on my path as well.
LIAM: I'm working on mine. Mine is a little
long-goal, perhaps.
SAM: What is it you're working on? Just learning
new magic?
LIAM: You know what I've done.
SAM: I know, but I don't know how you're going to
undo it.
LIAM: Well, I don't have one plan in mind. Part of
me thinks that I should just stop it from happening to
anyone else. Part of me is very selfish and wants
to carve it out of my past.
SAM: That's not selfish, that's important.
LIAM: It's dangerous, not just to me.
SAM: Oh. Well, I think I understand a little about
that, too. There's things that I want to change as
well. Things that would be risky to change. But
sometimes you have to take a big risk, if it's
that important.
LIAM: That is true. You are my greatest friend.
SAM: Little ol' me?
LIAM: I like you because you are funny, but it's
more than that. We will get you what you want.
Even if there is some risk. Because if it's really
important, it's worth the risk, ja?
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: Okay. You and I, we have an agreement. A
pact.
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: Whatever you need, we are going to make it
happen.
SAM: Even if it's risky, yes. We're going to do
it. You'll help me?
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: No matter what?
LIAM: If it is in my power, I will do it.
SAM: Good. Well then, onward to the beach!
LIAM: That's funny. I've never been to the beach.
SAM: Oh! I bet you would sunburn easily. You
should probably coat yourself with a layer of
dirt, just to make sure.
LIAM: Done and done.
TALIESIN: Were you just thinking about that? Don't
think I wasn't.
LAURA: I'm sorry. I'll buy you another one.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, you are.
MATT: As you've reconvened, are there any last
materials you need to pick up for the journey, or
are you ready to move?
LAURA: I'm going to buy Cad a hat. A straw hat, to
replace the one I stole from him.
MATT: Okay. Caduceus' hat replaced.
TALIESIN: I'm also going to distribute-- I made
everybody a potion of healing, so everybody gets--
SAM: You made that?!
TALIESIN: I made them myself. They've got a
bit of a weird flavor, but they're--
LIAM: The Cad in the Hat delivers.
TALIESIN: They're great.
TRAVIS: What level are they?
MATT: Basic: level one.
MARISHA: But still.
MATT: Caduceus can now--
MARISHA: You basic!
MATT: Caduceus can make one healing potion for 25
gold and one day of downtime.
LAURA: Whoa!
TALIESIN: It's a nice little pick-me-up if anyone
goes down next to you.
MARISHA: You know, I had that as Keyleth at later
levels; I never fucking used it.
LAURA: Wow, thanks Keyleth.
LAURA and TALIESIN: #ThanksKeyleth
MATT: She had better options by then.
TALIESIN: Kiki had other things going on.
MARISHA: We got super busy.
LIAM: We could go anywhere on the planet at any
time.
MATT: Yeah, don't miss those days.
MARISHA: It's a bad thing to have at later levels;
it was better at lower levels.
TRAVIS: Boosh!
MATT: It's like, "Oh, you can teleport anywhere?
Cool, let me just prepare the world every week."
Don't miss that at all.
LIAM: Matt, we want to go to Brazil-- No, Norway.
MATT: All right. Goddamn it, Sam.
SAM: Oh. Sorry.
MATT: You gather your supplies, finish your
business here for the time being. You gather up
your new cart that you brought down from
Shadycreek Run.
TRAVIS: Hey! Invisi-cart.
MARISHA: Invisi-cart.
MATT: And your horses, which are two that pull the
cart, and you have--
LAURA: Dancing Queen and Mamma Mia.
MATT: Correct, you have your two horses and the
cart.
SAM: Do we need more for the journey, or is that
enough?
MARISHA: Didn't we have a couple more, too?
SAM: No, we set them free.
MARISHA: Oh, that's right.
MATT: That's enough. So your two horses and your
cart. You leave the southern gates of Zadash,
making your way southward, retracing your steps
down through Alfield and Trostenwald, to
eventually make your way through the Wuyun Gorge,
the Wuyun Gates, where you two first began this
journey in session zero, and southward to the
Menagerie Coast beyond. And that's where we'll
finish tonight's episode, we'll pick up with that
next week. This is going to be a whole different
flavor, I'm excited.
TALIESIN: I'm so excited.
MATT: Well, shit. All right! We'll pick up for
that next week. As a reminder, the week after
that, Marisha, myself, and Taliesin will be out in
the thing in the desert.
TALIESIN: Unavailable, yeah.
MATT: Unavailable.
MARISHA: Indisposed!
MATT: Indisposed. However, that doesn't mean that
we're going dark. There will be a special one-shot
happening that week. The last Thursday of August.
More details to come as far as that's concerned.
Just preparing you guys for that. There will be a
week off from the main story. We'll be back next
week to see this next leg of the journey and see
where it takes us. In the interim, thank you
again, D&D Beyond. Thank you guys for coming along
with us.
SAM: (singing) D&D Beyond!
MATT: No. We're done.
SAM: (singing) Make love to me tonight.
MATT: Anyway, have a wonderful night, guys. Thanks
for coming along with us. We love you, and is it
Thursday yet? Good night.
[music]